House No…
Jayanagar
Bengaluru
14 April 20XX
Dear Ananda,
Hope you are all doing well!
Do you remember our last conversation about war and the
importance of peace? We talked about how India had to
struggle for its Independence from the British for many
centuries. Post-independence our country has had to fight
several wars to protect its borders, territorial integrity, and its
people. This made me wonder, who were these brave Indian
people? They fought to protect our country and sacrificed their
lives so that we could lead our lives in peace. What were their
names? Where did they come from? Does anyone remember
anything about them?
Last week I got the answers to some of my questions during
an educational trip to New Delhi organised by our school. You
may recall, I was looking forward to this trip and our visit
to many places of historical and educational significance.
I learnt several new and interesting things, and I am excited
to share them with you.
Let me begin by asking you to guess the name of the monument
that I found most inspiring. Let’s see if you can guess. The
construction of this monument started in April 2018 and
was completed in February 2019. It was envisioned and then
inaugurated by India’s Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi in February 2019. In terms of location and size, it is spread
over 40 acres of land near the iconic India Gate. But more
importantly, it is a tribute to some of the bravest Indians. I’m
sure you’ve guessed! It’s the ‘National War Memorial’. Won’t
you say, a long-desired aspiration was fulfilled?
Our visit to the National War Memorial began with our teacher
explaining that even after Independence, India has had to fight
many wars to protect herself, and the freedom and security
we enjoy today is because of the many brave men and women
who have served in the Indian Armed Forces over decades.
Sadly, she said, war always takes its toll, and therefore, many
brave soldiers have had to sacrifice their lives for the country
even after our Independence in 1947.
This is what makes monuments like the National War Memorial
extremely important, so that we should never forget the cost
of freedom. We are aware, always, of the pain and horrors
of war. We learnt that each brick of the memorial is called a
tablet, and it bears the names of soldiers who fought for India
and made the supreme sacrifice in different wars from 1947
till date, including the Indo-China conflict of 1962, the IndoPak Wars in 1965 & 1971 and the Kargil War in 1999. There
are 29,000 tablets on which more than 26,000 names of fallen
soldiers have been etched.
It was heartening to know that our government has recognised
the sacrifice of brave soldiers. Our teacher told us about the 21
bravehearts who were awarded the Param Vir Chakra (PVC),
India’s highest wartime gallantry medal, for their service to
the nation. She also told us about Maha Vir Chakra (MVC),
Kirti Chakra (KC), Vir Chakra (VrC), and Shaurya Chakra (SC).
Major Somnath Sharma was posthumously awarded India’s
first PVC in the Battle of Badgam in 1947. Later some more
PVCs were awarded for exceptional gallantry during the IndiaChina Conflict of 1962, and the India-Pakistan War of 1965.
Besides, a PVC was also awarded for service during the UN
Peace Keeping Operations in Congo.
In the 1971 war, some of the heroes who were awarded the
PVC (posthumously) include Lance Naik Albert Ekka, Flying
Officer Nirmal Jit Singh Sekhon, Second Lieutenant Arun
Khetarpal, and Major Hoshiar Singh. Some Navy personnelincluding Captain Mahendra Nath Mulla were also awarded
MVC for their exemplary courage and leadership.
Then the teacher shared with us the citation of Param Vir Chakra
awardee Lance Naik Albert Ekka. It touched my heart and also
motivated me. We were awestruck and humbled by his bravery.
I aspire to be courageous like him when I join the army!As we continued our visit around the National War Memorial,
we came across another important installation called Amar
Jawan Jyoti that commemorates our soldiers. The name, as
you may have guessed, represents an immortal flame that
is kept ablaze all through the day and night to revere the
sacrifices of our soldiers. Earlier the Amar Jawan Jyoti, which
also displayed a rifle and a helmet, was alighted under the
arch of India Gate in January 1972 to commemorate India’s
victory in the India-Pakistan War of 1971.The National War Memorial now includes Amar
Jawan Jyoti in the obelisk, which is surrounded by
four Chakras. During the inauguration, the Prime
Minister lit a new flame to commemorate the fallen
heroes. Later, the old flame at India Gate was also
merged with the new flame at the National War
Memorial. Here is a picture of the new Amar Jawan
Jyoti if you haven’t seen it.
You can see the obelisk surrounded by wreaths
that have been placed as a mark of respect. The
lighting design is planned in such a way that it
transforms the monument’s landscape as sunlight
changes from dawn to dusk. It truly is a majestic
site that filled me with pride for our nation. I was
also overwhelmed by the interminable flame as a
metaphor for eternal stories of courage and valour.
Our teacher also explained the significance of the Chakras to
us. I found it interesting and hence I am sharing with you.
The National War Memorial consists of four concentric circles,
which are known as Amar Chakra, Veerta Chakra, Tyag Chakra,
and Raksha Chakra around a 15-metre-tall central obelisk
with the eternal flame—the Amar Jawan Jyoti. It also houses
bronze and stone murals and graphic panels. Isn’t it amazing!
The innermost circle represents the Amar Chakra, also
known as the ‘Circle of Immortality’. This has the Obelisk with
Eternal Flame. The Amar Jawan Jyoti flame symbolises the
immortality of the spirit of fallen soldiers with the assurance
that the nation will never forget their sacrifice.
The second circle is called the Veerta Chakra, which is also
known as the ‘Circle of Bravery’. There is a covered gallery
that exhibits six murals crafted in bronze, depicting valiant
battle actions of our Armed Forces.
The third circle represents the Tyag Chakra, also known
as the ‘Circle of Sacrifice’. The circular concentric walls of
honour symbolise the ancient war formation, which is called
Chakravyuh. The walls are covered with granite tablets andindividual tablet is solely dedicated to each fallen hero of postIndependent India. Their names are etched in golden letters.
The outermost circle represents the Raksha Chakra, which
is also known as the ‘Circle of Protection’. In this chakra the
row of trees is a reassurance to the citizens of the country
about their safety against any threat. Each tree represents the
soldiers who ensure the territorial integrity of the nation.
We spent the whole day, from morning to evening, at the
National War Memorial and the surrounding areas, marked by
majestic lawns and grand buildings of Kartavyapath. We were
immersed in the ambience that was solemn and a reminder
of what a free nation could achieve. The overall environment
created an emotive experience that was visually inspiring. I
felt as if I had developed a bond with the place.
I learnt a lot, but I also have to admit that the various discourses
during the day brought tears to my eyes. It was sad to think
about the massive devastation and loss of life caused by wars.
It motivated me to live a life worthy of the sacrifices of our
heroes.
After our visit, the class decided to make presentations on
stories of valour of the bravehearts we came across at the
National War Memorial. We divided ourselves into five
groups. We decided to make
presentations depicting the
courageous stories of the
soldiers. Our teacher has
also advised us to share our
experience during the school
assembly. I am delighted that
all the students of our school
will get to know about the
National War Memorial and
the soldiers it commemorates.
I am going to give a
presentation on the story of
Major Padmapani Acharya,
who fought for India in the
1999 Kargil War and was
awarded the Maha Vir Chakra. 