(Aman walks on stage and squats down as if he is sitting on a bench
that is invisible. Beena walks up to Aman.)
Beena : What are you doing?
Aman : I’m sitting on this invisible bench.
Beena : Can I join you?
Aman : Sure.
(Aman gets up, moves to one side. Both Aman
and Beena sit down on the bench, when Chanda walks
up to them.)
Chanda : What are you doing?
Aman and Beena : We are sitting on this invisible bench.
Chanda : Can I join you ?
Aman and Beena : Sure.
(Aman and Beena get up, move to one side.
All three sit down again when Dinesh and Ekta
walk up to them.)
Dinesh and Ekta : What are you guys doing ?
Aman, Beena, Chanda : We are sitting on this invisible bench.
Dinesh and Ekta : Can we join you ?
Aman, Beena and Chanda : Sure.
(They get up, move a little to one side.
All five children sit down forming a line.)

(Farukh walks on stage........ .)
Farukh : What are you guys doing?
All others : Just sitting here
on this invisible bench.
Farukh : No you aren’t ! (Points)
I moved the bench
 over there.
All others : Oh, no !
(They all fall down.)
Farukh : Ha, ha !
Aman : Let’s do that again.
(The first five children move to one side and then sit down again.)
Farukh : What are you guys doing?
All others : Just sitting here on this invisible bench.
Farukh : No you aren’t. (Points) I moved the bench over there yesterday.
Aman : But I moved it back here this morning !
Farukh : Then it’s all right. Can I join you ?
Aman : Sure.
(They all sit down in a line.)
Farukh : I have an idea. Let’s start again.
(Gets up, walks away and runs up to the children again.)
Farukh : What are you guys doing?
All others : Sitting on this invisible bench.

Farukh : Oh, no ! I had just finished
painting that bench !
All others : AAAAGH !
(Stand up and wipe the imaginary paint
off their back sides.)
Aman : Let’s do that again.
All others : OK.
(Aman, Beena, Chanda, Dinesh, Ekta sit down on the
imaginary bench. Farukh gets up, walks away and comes back again.)
Farukh : What are you guys doing ?
All others : Sitting on this invisible bench.
Farukh : Oh, no! I had just finished
painting that bench!
Aman : Oh, that’s ok. We all have
our invisible paint suits on.
(All stand up, unzip the front of
their imaginary suits and step out.
Then they begin to fold the invisible suits.)
Farukh : I have another idea.
(Walks away and comes back again.)
Farukh : What are you guys doing?
All others : We are moving this
 invisible bench.
Farukh : I heard they are serving
invisible cakes in that
 hall there -
(All throw down the invisible bench and
run in the direction of the hall. Farukh follows.)