t the
Neanderthals lived mainly in caves. At
that time, the climate in Europe was
extremely cold. The Neanderthals could
protect themselves from the freezing
temperatures because they wore leather
clothing and made use of fire. Perhaps,
that was not enough. That is why they used animal hides to erect tents inside the
caves for warmth. Wherever necessary,
they also built huts in the open.



 In the Middle Stone Age, groups
of Homo sapiens had established
camps all over the world. At that
time, the climate was getting warmer.
Everywhere the environment was
changing. And with it, the diet of Homo
sapiens was also undergoing change.
By the time of the Middle Stone Age,
big animals like mammoths were on the
way to extinction due to the changing
environment and also because they were hunted on a very large scale. That is
why, Homo sapiens had largely turned
to fishing. He also began to depend more on hunting smaller animals like the wild
boar, deer, mountain goat and sheep.
The changed diet pattern enabled
the groups of Homo sapiens to roam
to faraway regions. They moved their
camps to different places according to seasonal changes. There they
harvested seasonal wild grains and
gathered seasonal fruits and roots.
They would find out the best seasons
for fishing and use the knowledge to
their advantage. By observation, they
discovered the best hunting grounds.
For these reasons, they stayed in one place for longer periods. They cleared
jungles by felling trees and set up
their seasonal camps in the clearings.

The way of life of humans in
the New Stone Age was completely
different from that of humans in the
Old Stone Age and Middle Stone Age.
During this period, humans became
producers of foodgrains. The beginning
of cultivation is a characteristic of the
culture of the New Stone Age. In the hunting and gathering way of life, it
is necessary to keep moving all the
time. However, agriculture makes it
possible to store food and use it over a
longer period. Hence, there is no need
to keep moving constantly. Moreover,
the nature of agricultural work made it
necessary to stay in one place. Therefore,
people established permanent villagesettlements and lived in them generation
after generation. In the next lesson, we
shall review the social organization and
the culture of these village-settlements.
