What are you doing, Munna?
I am drawing.
When will you study? Where were you in the
morning?
I was playing. Bhaiya, how can
you sit with a book for hours together?
That's because I want my foundation in
education to be very strong. If the base is
strong then the building will stand firmly.
Sometimes it takes me two years to do one
year's work.
Bhaiya, you are five years older than I am and
three classes ahead of me. I wonder why you
keep writing the same word twenty times, one
sentence more than twenty times and copy
poems several times in beautiful letters?
You know, studying English is no child's play,
one has to work very hard in order to learn the
subject. To speak or write English properly,
tremendous effort is required. But the moment
you get a chance, you run to the field, play
marbles and fly paper kites, or sit idling away
with friends for fun! Can’t you sit down and
study?
Oh Bhaiya, there is a big in the village
today. Should we go?
Have you ever seen me going to a fair or going
to watch a cricket or hockey match? I don't go
near them. I prefer to study a book. I don't
mind repeating a class for more than two
years. But you might stay in the same class all
your life. Do you expect to pass if you waste
your time playing all the time? You are simply
wasting father's hard earned money.
Bhaiya, I feel like running away and going
back home.
Now, now! Stop crying. Put on a nice smile.
Look I will make a timetable for you to follow.
Get up at dawnBut when is the time to play?
Play? What is the need, Munna?
Oh! I love the green fields, the gentle breeze, I
want to jump up like a football, I like the touch
and go and sounds of the and
the hurry and flurry of volleyball pulls me like
a magnet. As soon as I am on the field, I forget
everything.
Alas! I have failed once again.
Oh! But Bhaiya, I have passed and topped my
class. Now there is only two years difference
between us.
But my dear brother, don't be so proud.
You have passed only one class and you think
that I'm stupid and you are smart. Once in a
while, in a game, you might get
lucky and hit a goal but that does not meanyou have mastered the game. You have to work
hard to be successful in life. When you have to
study a subject like Algebra or Geometry in
higher classes then you will understand the
importance of hard work.
In Geometry, if one writes ‘acb’ instead
of ‘abc’ the answer is marked wrong. The
examiners will not spare you. They want you to
learn word by word from the textbooks.
Oh Bhaisaheb! This is scary. I don t think I
want to go to the 9th class now, but I will still
complete my day s homework so that I get no
punishment in class.
Just today, we were asked to write a short
essay on the topic of in four pages!
And imagine, can something be written on four
pages and still be short? It s all so mixed up!
Thank God, it was time for
school or else, the scolding would have gone on
and on.
Ah! I am lucky. I can pass easily.
I need not study so hard. Now I can play games
with my friends and fly kites. But I should
still be careful that Bhaiya does not see me
flying kites.Aren't you
ashamed to be playing kites all day long? Don't
you realise that now you are in the eighth class
and are not studying in a lower class? If you
think that I am just one class ahead of you and
I can't say anything, you are wrong. I am five
years older than you are, and will always be.
Understanding doesn’t come only from reading
books. Look at Ma and Baba. Ma has never
gone to school and Baba has only passed fifth
class.
Really haiya! Is that true?
Yes! There are a thousand things that they
know more than you or me. And even if we
have studied the wisdom of the whole world,
Ma and Baba will always have the right to
explain to us and correct us.
Now, what would you do if I were to fall sick
today?
I don't know, Bhaiya! I would tell Baba and he
would rush to the hostel.
Aha! I had expected this answer. Now Baba
would not get upset. He would first try to find
out what was wrong and then he would call a
doctor. Baba would know exactly what to do.
They have more experience than us.
Bhaiya I am sorry, what
you say is true.
I also like to play and fly kites. But if I also play
then how can I watch out for you? You are my
responsibility.
I love you, Bhaiya!