Caterpillars are mostly green; that's best for them. 
They can hide among green leaves so that the pecking birds can't see them. 
Try to spot a green caterpillar among a bush of green leaves. It isn't easy!

So when Little Pink Caterpillar slipped out of an egg, the other caterpillars were very surprised. 
The butterflies flapped their wings. "There's no such thing as a pink caterpillar!" 
The worm shook his head, or it might have been his tail. "I've never seen such a thing! Caterpillars are never, ever pink..." 
"However did that happen?" The white fluttery moths flapped their wings. 
Ladybird laughed. "Pink caterpillars? Whatever next!"

But Little Pink Caterpillar took no notice. 
"I'm pink, but I am still a caterpillar. 
What's the problem?" 
Ladybird shook her head. "Well, caterpillars hide among green leaves. You are pink, so you stand out among the green leaves..."

"Maybe..." Little Pink Caterpillar had to agree. "I guess I'll just have to find somewhere pinker..." 
And he slowly set off, to find a better place to be safe.

Caterpillars aren't fast, and the garden isn't small, so Little Pink Caterpillar took ages.

Ladybird helped a bit. 
"The pink flowers aren't far away. You'll be safe there..." 
And so, Little Pink Caterpillar slowly set off in search of the pink flowers...

He passed by the bright yellow flowers. 
"Keep going! You wouldn't be safe here..." Ladybird shouted. 
Was she enjoying this?

It was hard work, and a long way for the Little Pink Caterpillar, but at last he saw the pink flowers dancing in the distance. 
He was almost there.

Little Pink Caterpillar arrived at the edge of the flowers. Now he really needed a rest, somewhere safe from those beaky-eyed birds. 
He was so tired, as he had crawled such a long way. 
"I need to snuggle down and sleep amongst those waving pink flowers," he thought.

Little Pink Caterpillar yawned and stretched. 
Before he knew it, he was fast asleep.

Little Pink Caterpillar slept and slept, upside down in his field of pink flowers. 
I don't know if he had any dreams, but if he did, they were probably pink!

He slept so long, long, he hardly hard noticed that he was slowly changing... well, you know that caterpillars change, but I'm not sure if caterpillars know! 
But it really was a long and deep sleep.

When Little Pink Caterpillar woke up, he felt different. 
Very different. 
He looked different, too!"

"I think I'm a new me,” he smiled.

"You've changed, Little Pink Caterpillar. You've been sleeping for ages!" said Ladybird.

"I feel different; I really do..." 
Little Pink Caterpillar tried to stretch, but he really was different...

Slowly, in his long sleep, his wriggly caterpillar self had slowly turned into his new Butterfly SELF... 
He was ready to wake up now!

That's how it happens: caterpillars take a long, long sleep, usually upside down, and slowly their wings start to grow. 
Little Pink Caterpillar took a few moments to stretch and wake up. 
"I feel so different; so grown up..."

He stretched his new wings. 
He wasn't Little Pink Caterpillar any more - he had grown up into Little Pink Butterfly, and it felt good. 
He was ready to fly and explore!

Now when you are in the garden or the park, look out for butterflies! 
I've seen white ones, yellow ones, and even orange - but I haven't seen a pink one -yet!

The legend said that if any man should marry the giant Ysbaddaden's daughter, the giant himself would die. 
Ysbaddaden an old tree --enormous, hairy, and muscled like did not want to die. 
He made himself fearsome. He refused to bathe, so that his stench would strike down everything for miles and miles around. 
Alone with his daughter in his fortified castle, he struck down instantly any man who presented himself to his gates.