In the city of Cashgar, lived a barber who was a great
talker. Once the Sultan called the barber to shave
his head. The barber started talking non-stop
instead of shaving him. The Sultan got angry.
“When are you going to stop talking and begin to
do your work?”
The Barber replied, “You do me an injury by
calling me a chatterer. For, everyone says I am very
quiet. I have six brothers whom you might call
chatterers. Their names are Bacbone (buk-bon),
Bakbarea (buk-buria), Bakbac (buk-buk), Alcouz
(ul-kooz), Alnaschee (ul-nashi) and Schacabac( shaka-bak). One is humpbacked, one is toothless, one
is half blind, one is quite blind, one is deaf and the
other has a defect in his speech and they are all
great talkers, but I am the youngest of my family,
and I am very quiet and sparing with words.“Give him three pieces
of gold,” the Sultan cried,
losing all patience, “and send
him away. I will not be
shaved today.”
“My Master,” cried the
Barber, “it was not I who
came to seek you, it was
you who ordered me to
come. So I will not quit
your house till I have
shaved you.”
He then began narrating
another story, which lasted half an hour.
“Stop making your fine speeches and let me go
quickly. I have an affair of the greatest importance. I have
to go out at noon,” said the Sultan.When he saw that the Sultan was really angry with
him, the Barber said, “O Master, do not be angry, I will
begin to shave you.” Saying this, he washed the Sultan’s
head and began to shave. But he had not touched him
even four times with the razor, when he stopped and
said, “My Master, you are acting hastily in this matter.”
“Go on shaving me, speak no more”, ordered the
Sultan.
“Be patient,” said the barber, “perhaps you have not
considered well what you were going to do. I wish you
would tell me what this matter of great importance is all
about and then I will give you my opinion on it.”
“Finish shaving at once,” the Sultan exclaimed. But,
instead of doing this, the Barber left the Sultan halfshaved to go and see what time it was.“ My patience is
exhausted,” the Sultan cried.
“Be calm, my Master and you shall be shaved in a
moment,” said the Barber and saying this, he continued
shaving the Sultan. But while he was doing this, he could
not help talking.
“If you could inform me what this important affair is, I
would give more advice, which you might find useful,” he
said.
The Sultan was completely fed up by now and decided
to satisfy the barber. He told him that he was giving a
feast to some friends at noon which was why he was in a
hurry to leave.
When the barber heard the Sultan mention a feast he
exclaimed, “That reminds me. Yesterday, I invited four or
five friends to come to my house today. But I had quite
forgotten it and have not made any preparationsfor them.” The Sultan who was at the mercy of the
Barber, was ready to do anything to be rid of him.
“Be quick and finish your work,” the Sultan replied,
“and you shall have all the food that has been prepared
for me today.”
“Please show me the food so that I may judge if it is
enough for my five friends.”
“I have enough food for you!” the Sultan exclaimed.
But he ordered that all the food prepared for his feast be
brought in.
The Barber looked over the food and said “This is very
good but I shall want some fruit for the dessert also.”
The Sultan, in desperation, since his head was half
shaved, ordered that the fruits should also be brought in.The Barber left off shaving
the Sultan to examine
each dish separately.
This took up half
an hour.
The Sultan
stamped his feet
impatiently
but the
Barber did
not hurry.
At length,
however, he again took up the razor but after a few
minutes of work, stopped suddenly and cried, “ I
never knew that you were so generous.”
