Alarippu, shabdam, varnam, padam - these were strange words
for the audience in the packed auditorium in Washington. But as the
young dancer from India, looking splendid in her traditional costume, explained each
item before she began her dance,
they began to understand the
bhava (emotion), raga (melody)
and tala (rhythm) of
Bharatanatyam.
About ten years ago,
Sudha was a promising 17-yearold dancer with more than 80
performances behind her. And
then one day, she was injured in
a road accident about 2
kilometers from Tiruchirapalli,
Tamil Nadu, where the family
had gone for their annual
pilgrimage. Perhaps she was not treated properly at the local hospital where she was
rushed. In any case, her injuries resulted in a gangrenous infection. When she was
taken to Chennai, the doctors there tried hard to stop the growth of the infection. but
finally they were forced to amputate her right leg from about eight centimeters below
the knee.
In the terrible months that followed, Sudha's search began - to find a way of
dancing again. The day I met Dr. Pramod Sethi, I knew that my dream would come
true, she says. Dr. Sethi had won the Magsaysay Award for his development of the
‘Jaipur Foot’ - an artificial limb made from vulcanized rubber filled with sponge.
Sudha acquired a ‘Jaipur Foot’ and began her determined journey back to the world
of Bharatanatyam, learning to balance, bend, stretch, walk, twist, turn and finally,
dance. Her doctors, her physiotherapist, her parents and her guru were all a part of
her passionate effort. On October 27, 182, she gave a Gurudakshina (a traditional
thanks giving recital) at the residence of her guru. It was truly a miracle.
What was the miracle?
On January 28, 184, Sudha made a historic comeback by giving a public recital
in Bombay (Mumbai). The performance was notable for its classical quality. Everyone
warmly welcomed the return of the talented dancer.
 Her father K.D. Chandran say, After every performance, Sudha used to ask,
'How was it, Daddy?' and I used to tell her that she still had to improve a lot. But on
January 28, when she asked me the usual question, I didn't say anything. I just touched
her feet. It was my tribute to a great artist.
18. Dancing On
-111-
English-8
Sudha's amazing success story took an
interesting turn when a Hyderabad film producer
decided to make a Telugu film not just based on
her story but with her in the main lead. Mayuri's
success encouraged him to dub the film in Tamil
and Malayalam and remake it in Hindi as ‘Nache
Mayuri’ - and Sudha Chandran had yet another
birth, as a film star. She has since acted in some
three dozen films in several languages, and has
also just completed producing a Kannada film
‘Kalabhimani’ based on the true life of Balanna, a
deaf artist who went on to become a great
character actor. (Balanna, 74, has 400 Kannada
films to his credit and is still in demand.)
 Sudha says, If Helen Keller could overcome
her handicap so can I, is what I have always told
myself.
Point out similarities between Helen Keller and
Sudha Chandran.
That, Sudha remarks, is what she replied to
her Indian fans who wrote to her in the thousands
after the release of her films. People wrote to say
that they were inspired by my story and that it had
given them new hope. I do feel thrilled that my
message has got across.
And what is that message ?
The seed of achievement lies in the human mind. When this realization comes,
there is no looking back. Once I decided that my handicap was not going to stop me
from dancing, that was it.