Doctor Dolittle was sitting in his kitchen talking with the Cat’sfood-Man who had come to see him with a stomach-ache.
“Why don’t you give up being a people’s doctor, and be an
animal doctor?” asked the Cat’s-food-Man.
The parrot, Polynesia, was sitting in the window looking out
at the rain and singing a sailor song to herself. She stopped
singing and started to listen.
“You see, Doctor,” the Cat’s-food-Man went on, “you know all
about animals—much more than what these vets here do.
That book you wrote—about cats, why, it’s wonderful! I can’t
read or write myself—my wife, Theodosia, is a scholar, and
she read your book to me. You might have been a cat yourself.
You know the way they think.”
When the Cat’s-food-Man had gone the parrot flew off the
window on to the Doctor’s table and said, “That man’s got
sense. That’s what you ought to do. Be an animal doctor. Give
the silly people up—if they haven’t brains enough to see you’re
the best doctor in the world. Take care of animals instead—
they’ll soon find it out. Be an animal doctor.”
“Oh, there are plenty of animal doctors,” said John Dolittle,
putting the flowerpots outside on the windowsill to get the
rain.
“Yes, there are plenty,” said Polynesia. “But none of them areany good at all. Now listen, Doctor, and I’ll tell you something.
Did you know that animals can talk?”
“I knew that parrots can talk,” said the Doctor.
“Oh, we parrots can talk in two languages—people’s language
and bird language,” said Polynesia proudly. “If I say, ‘Polly
wants a cracker’, you understand me. But hear this: Ka-ka oiee, fee-fee?”
“Good Gracious!” cried the Doctor. “What does that mean?”
“That means, ‘Is the porridge hot yet?’—in bird language.”
“My! You don’t say so!” said the Doctor. “You never talked that
way to me before.”
“What would have been the good?” said Polynesia, dusting
some cracker crumbs off her left wing. “You wouldn’t have
understood me if I had.”
“Tell me some more,” said the Doctor, all excited; and he
rushed over to the drawer and came back with a book and
a pencil. “Now don’t go too fast—and I’ll write it down.
This is interesting—very interesting—something quite new.
Give me the Birds’ A.B.C. first—slowly now.”
So that was the way the Doctor came to know that animals
had a language of their own and could talk to one
another. And all that afternoon, while it was
raining, Polynesia sat on the kitchen table
giving him bird words to put down in the
book.
At teatime, when the dog, Jip, came in,
the parrot said to the Doctor, “See, he’s
talking to you.”“Looks to me as though he were
scratching his ear,” said the Doctor.
“But animals don’t always speak
with their mouths,” said the parrot
in a high voice, raising her eyebrows.
“They talk with their ears, with their
feet, with their tails—with everything.
Sometimes they don’t want to make a
Wit and Humour
Birds’ A.B.C.:
(here) the
language that
birds speak
cracker: a thin,
dry biscuit
usually eaten
with cheese
45

Poorvi
46
noise. Do you see now the way he’s twitching up one side of his
nose?”
“What’s that mean?” asked the Doctor.
“That means, ‘Can’t you see that it has stopped raining?’”
Polynesia answered. “He is asking you a question. Dogs nearly
always use their noses for asking questions.”
After a while, with the parrot’s help, the Doctor got to learn the
language of the animals so well that he could talk to them himself
and understand everything they said. Then he gave up being a
people’s doctor altogether.As soon as the Cat’s-food-Man had told everyone that John Dolittle
was going to become an animal doctor, old ladies began to bring
him their pet pugs and poodles who had eaten too much cake;
and farmers came many miles to show him sick cows and sheep.One day a plough horse was brought to him; and the poor thing
was terribly glad to find a man who could talk in horse language.
“You know, Doctor,” said the horse, “that vet over the hill knows
nothing at all. He has been treating me six weeks now—for
something or the other. What I need is spectacles. I am going
blind in one eye. There’s no reason why horses shouldn’t wear
glasses, the same as people. But that stupid man over the hill
never even looked at my eyes. He kept on giving me big pills.
I tried to tell him, but he couldn’t understand a word of horse
language. What I need is spectacles.”
“Of course—of course,” said the Doctor. “I’ll get you some at once.”
“I would like a pair like yours,” said the horse—“only green.
They’ll keep the Sun out of my eyes while I’m ploughing the field.”
“Certainly,” said the Doctor. “Green ones you shall have.”
“You know, the trouble is, Sir,” said the plough horse as the
Doctor opened the front door to let him out—“the trouble is that
anybody thinks he can doctor animals—just because the animals
don’t complain. As a matter of fact, it takes a much cleverer man
to be a really good animal doctor than it does to be a good people’s
doctor.”
“Well, well!” said the Doctor.
“When will my glasses be ready?”
Then John Dolittle got a fine, big pair of green spectacles; and
the plough horse stopped going blind in one eye and could see
as well as ever.
And soon it became a common sight to see farm animals
wearing glasses in the countryside, round Puddleby; and a
blind horse was a thing unknown.
And so it was with all the other animals that were brought to
him. As soon as they found that he could talk their language,
they told him where the pain was and how they felt, and of
course it was easy for him to cure them.
Now all these animals went back and told their brothers and
friends that there was a doctor in the little house with the big
garden who really was a doctor. And whenever any creatures
got sick—not only horses and cows and dogs—but all the little
things of the fields, like harvest mice, badgers, and bats, all
came at once to his house on the edge of the town, so that his
big garden was nearly always crowded with animals trying to
get in to see him.
There were so many that came that he had to have special
doors made for the different kinds. He wrote ‘HORSES’ overthe front door, ‘COWS’ over the side door, and ‘SHEEP’ on the
kitchen door. Each kind of animal had a separate door—even
the mice had a tiny tunnel made for them into the cellar, where
they waited patiently in rows for the Doctor to come round
to them.
And so, in a few years’ time, every living thing for miles and
miles got to know about John Dolittle, M.D. And the birds who
flew to other countries in the winter told the animals in foreign
lands about Dolittle who could understand their talk and help
them in their troubles. In this way he became famous among
the animals—all over the world. He was happy and liked his
life very much