What a farmer needs most for his
fields is a good source of water. Kasim
had his eye on a well that was just
outside the boundary of his field. But
Ahmad, the man who owned the well,
was a crafty old man. He wouldn’t allow
anyone to draw water from his well. He
told Kasim, “Why do you come to me
again and again to beg for access to
my well ? I feel sorry to turn down your
request every time. I have a suggestion
for you. Collect some money and buy
the whole well from me.” 

Kasim thought over the suggestion
and liked it. He knew Ahmad would
ask for a lot of money but he saw in his
mind’s eye, channels of water running
from the well through his field and
made a decision. He took all his savings
to Ahmad and bought the well.
The next day, he went to the well
happily and dug out a channel. But
when he began to draw water, there was a surprise in store for
him. Suddenly Ahmad came forward and announced, “What
are you doing, Kasim? How dare you
touch the water in my presence ?”
“What do you mean - haven’t you
sold this well to me ?” 

“Ah, I sold the well all right, but
not the water in the well. The water
still belongs to me. You can’t use it. If
you needed the water along with the
well, you should have said so. I have
a suggestion for you. Pay for the water
separately and use it. You can buy fresh
water every day. I don’t mind!”
Kasim was shocked to hear
Ahmad’s argument. It was so unfair,
so unjust ! He rushed to the Qazi and
told him the whole story. The Qazi was
a wise man. He told Kasim to bring
Ahmad to his court so that he could hear
both sides of the case.
Ahmad was summoned to the court.
The Qazi heard his argument patiently. 

“Hmm, I see that you are right. What
you have sold is the well, the water is all
yours. Isn’t that so ?’’
Kasim’s heart sank, when he heard
the Qazi’s words. Ahmad in his heart
of hearts was overjoyed. He had never
thought the Qazi would side with him.

“My Lord, I am so grateful you
understand the fine points of this case.
The water does indeed belong to me.”
“In that case, Ahmad, why are you
keeping it in Kasim’s well? You have
no right to keep your belongings in
his property. You must remove them
immediately. Or else, you can pay a
daily rent to Kasim. Then he will allow
you to use his well.”
Ahmad was so confused that he did
not know what to say. All the people
present in the court began to laugh.
But Kasim was a generous man. He
never troubled Ahmad for the ‘rent’ that
was due from him.