On the 16th of June 1730 we discovered land. Our
captain sent a dozen men with vessels for water, if any
could be found. When we came to land we saw no river or
spring nor any inhabitants. I went on to explore. The
country was barren and rocky. I turned back to join the
crew, only to see them getting into the boat and rowing
for life to get to the ship.
Before I could reach them I observed a huge creature
walking after them in the sea as fast as he could. The
water of the ocean reached only till his knees! However,
the monster was unable to overtake the speeding boat. I
turned back quickly and climbed up a steep hill with fields
of barley on either side and the corn rising upto forty feet.
There was a fence to pass from one field to the other. It was impossible for me to climb because every step
was six feet high. I was trying to find a gap in the hedge
when I discovered one of the inhabitants in the next field
walking towards the fence. He was of the same size as the
creature chasing the boat. I was struck with utmost
fear and astonishment and ran to hide myself. He called
in a voice much louder than a trumpet. It sounded like
thunder! Seven monsters like him came towards the field
ready to reap the corn. They carried a reaping hook
which was very big. When one
of the reapers approached
where I lay hidden I
screamed as loud as I
could. The creature
stopped reaping,
p i c k e d
me up between
his thumb and
f o r e f i n g e r a n d
brought me close to
his eyes, sixty feet
above the ground. He
looked at me with curiosity
and blew my hair aside to get
a better view of my face.
He called his friends and
gently placed me on the
ground.
They all sat on the
ground to take a good
look at me. I walkedslowly backward and forward, pulled off my hat and made a
low bow towards the farmers. I tried to speak to them loudly in
several languages. Each time I did so the farmer who picked
me up held his ear very close to me but in vain. The farmer
took me to his house and placed me at some distance on the
dining table which was thirty feet high from the floor.
Dinner was brought for the farmer in a dish which was ten
feet in diameter. The farmer's wife crumbled some bread and
placed it before me. In the middle of the dinner I heard a noise
behind me. It was the purring of a cat that was ten times larger
than an ox. The farmer's wife was stroking him. Then entered
the farmer's one year-old son in the arms of a lady. On seeing
me the child grabbed me from the table and put my head
into his mouth. I shouted so loudly that the baby
dropped me. I would have broken my neck if the
mother had not held her apron under me.
Later she put me on her own bed and
covered me with a clean white
handkerchief.
I slept dreaming of my home, my
wife and my children.
