It’s early morning on a Sunday and an excited group of boys play football in the Back
Garden, a large ground in Colaba, South Mumbai. Both teams are wearing colourful
jerseys printed with logos that say: OSCAR-Education With a Kick.
At 23, Ashok Rathod, short and curly haired, is the oldest of the players. Unlike the
others he’s also yelling instructions on how to kick or pass and egging the others onAshok isn’t just playing for his team, nor is he the fastest or the most skilful footballer
here, yet the boys in both teams follow his lead and take directions from him.
Today’s first goal-scorer is Anil Chauhan. Tall and well built, he’s from nearby Ambedkar
Nagar, a sprawling slum colony of about 12,000 people. Anil had, like many poor urban
kids, dropped out after a few years of primary schooling. Years later, when he started
working as a housekeeper in a bank, he realized his mistake.
“I didn’t know how to read or write and couldn’t even sign my name,” says Anil, who
enrolled at a night school last year because of Ashok Rathod, his neighbour, who plays
football with him thrice a week. “It doesn’t matter that I’m only in class five and 22
years old,” says Anil.
Many of the other players too, went back to school because of Ashok, who started
these football sessions five years ago.
When Ashok was a child, his father Shankar Rathod, a fisherman, regretted that his
daughter and older son had dropped out of school. At one point Ashok too wanted to
quit, but his father insisted that he continued, much against the neighbourhood norm.
Ashok talks of how little value his peers and many of their parents placed on education.
“I saw boys regularly drop out of our municipal school.” recalls Ashok. “Some left
during a morning interval and never returned. As for the girls, a good many don’t attend
school anyway.” The dropped-out boys used to hang out at the nearby Sassoon Docks,
Mumbai’s biggest fish market. They’d steal or pick up fish that had fallen from baskets,
to sell and make easy money.
“And whenever or however they brought in some cash,” Ashok explains, “the parents
considered it clever.” Worse, Ashok watched many of those boys squander these illgotten profits on drink, cigarettes and gambling. In 2006, after finishing high school,
Ashok got a job with Magic Bus, a Mumbai NGO, which sent him to the city’s poorer
Reading C
Ashok Rathod’s Football OSCAR
57
areas to mentor children. That’s how he realized that team-sports, particularly football,
forged friendships, and called for discipline. It also had, overall, a positive effect in the
children’s lives. Why not do the same for the boys in my neighbourhood? Ashok
thought.
He offered to teach football to a few boys he knew. In exchange, he told them to
promise not to miss classes. On a Sunday in October 2006, he got a ball and invited the
kids to play. Eighteen boys turned up. Ashok called his group OSCAR or the Organization
for Social Change, Awareness and
Responsibility.
Ashok, who learnt about football
at Magic Bus, began teaching
them the intricacies of the
game. In between, he’d also
slip in stories about his
childhood friends who’d
dropped out of school. “If
you want a future, you’ve got
to study,” he urged over and
over again, when they met to
play on weekends. “Stay in
school. I don’t want you to end
up like them!”
Meanwhile, Ashok was nervous about telling his family about OSCAR and his football
sessions. What if his father objected? Since he was doing his Higher Secondary and
working as well, Shankar Rathod would expect his son to spend his weekends catching
up on school work; ironically, on the same days when Ashok was telling younger boys
to study.
There were other problems as well. “Even if a boy wanted to return to school, it was
often difficult convincing parents,” he says. “In many cases, I had to go over and
persuade them, often taking others with me.” But once, after a few football players
failed their final exams, their parents blamed Ashok. Football had become a distraction,
they complained, as if nobody in their slum had failed before. “Some of the parents
gathered outside my home, and shouted abuse,” he says. “It was scary.”
That’s when Ashok’s father came to know about it all. He warned his son to be careful.
But the incident only made Ashok more determined. He enlisted the help of two NGOs
to have those boys tutored for free in English, Hindi and Mathematics. These NGOs
also helped Ashok get more kids back in school.Besides a few supportive NGOs, OSCAR gets individual donors to sponsor his
footballers, who are now part of eight teams in all age groups of the Mumbai Football
League. Every child on an OSCAR team has to abide by one rule: They have to attend
school regularly and stay there. “And OSCAR doesn’t want just great football players,”
says Ashok. “We want good human beings.”
Today, five years after that first game, about 150 boys from Ambedkar Nagar and two
neighbouring slum communities are part of the OSCAR Foundation’s football program.
Thrice a week, for two exciting hours, two coaches train these youngsters. Ten dropouts,
including Anil, have so far returned to school, and it is hard to figure out how many are
staying on because of Ashok and the power of football.
In 2009, Ashok won a CNN-IBN “Real Hero” award and with it, a cash prize, after
taxes, of 3.45 lakh. “That’s when my parents realized I was doing something worthwhile,”
Ashok smiles. “My father said he was proud of me.” Ashok invested some of the
money in a fixed deposit for OSCAR Foundation and registered it as a trust. He also
bought a computer for the kids, purchased more football equipment and rented a tiny
room in which some of the children receive extra tuitions.
Happy with the way things are going, Ashok has lately been shifting his focus on girls
as well, offering to teach them football. “Having seen my boys, parents are actually
sending their girls to play.” Over the past few months, 20 girls between the ages of 10
and 16 have been learning the game through OSCAR and nearly all of them now attend
school regularly.
Slowly, but surely a change is taking place. Inspired by Ashok, a few more footballand-school group, modeled on OSCAR, have sprung up in Ambedkar Nagar and its
two neighbouring slums. Ashok Rathod is scoring higher goals