Down the block at 1814 Beech
Avenue lived Mr. and Mrs. Newton. She was short
and round and neat. He was tall and thin and careful.
Their house was as neat as a pin. Not even a shoe
was out of place. Their meals were always on time.
The neighbour’s children knew that they should
keep off their grass. When they stepped on it, Mr.
Newton did not like it.
The Newtons didn’t know much about
children. But they did know that children make
noise. They knew children are likely to mess up
the house and spill things. The Newtons did not
like anything to be messed or spilled. They liked
everything to be just so.
Did the Newtons like children ?
The Newtons were busy doing things all day long. Together they knitted, baked,
and built things. Mr. Newton made a tall clock that looked like a tree. It had a little bird
that would fly out and sing sweetly. He made it all, and it was just right. Everything
about the Newtons’ lives was quiet and careful and neat.
One afternoon the Newtons got a letter. Mrs. Newton opened it right away for
they did not get many letters.
Madrid
30 September 03
Dear grandma and grandpapa,
Surprise! One of these days soon you are going to get a surprise! There
will be a knock at the door. When you open it, there we will be–all of us!
Love and kisses.
Your grandchildren
“How can this be?” asked Mrs. Newton.
“We have no grandchildren. Somebody is playing a joke on us.”
Mr. Newton said, “It’s not a funny joke. When they knock, we just won’t answer
the door. Children make a lot of noise and mess.”
The next morning Mrs. Newton got out her mixer.
“I’ll make some cookies for the grandchildren, if they come,” she said.
The days went by and they waited and they waited for a knock. No one came.
Finally, Monday afternoon, Mr. Newton said, “May be we read the letter wrong.” He
read it again. He looked at the letter a long, long time.
“We have made an awful mistake,” he said quietly. “This letter was for 1814
Birch Avenue. The grandchildren are not for us.”
They were both sad. It was very quiet in the little house.
Then one afternoon an idea came to Mr. Newton. He put an ad in the paper. The
ad read:
Wanted
Grandchildren to borrow. Any size or age. Please come to 1814
Beech Avenue on Saturday morning at nine.
There were only five days before Saturday. The Newtons made toys and baked
more cookies. Finally it was Saturday. They waited and
waited, but no one came. They waited all morning. They
had worked so hard and hoped so hard. But no one
came.
Mr. Newton went out into the yard. A little boy
came by on his bike.
Mr. Newton said, “Hello there. What’s your name?”
“Davey,” the boy answered. “My mom saw your
ad in the paper where you wanted to borrow some kids.
She says no one would ask for kids when they could
have a neat and quiet house.”
“Not us,” said Mr. Newton. “We have too much
quiet. Our house is too neat. We would like children to visit us. We have never had
any children. We would like to borrow
some. Tell all your friends.”
“You mean it?” asked Davey.
“I really mean it!” said Mr. Newton.
“I’ll tell them. I’ll ride all over.”
Almost before the Newtons knew
it, there was a knock at the door.
Children came!
Why did Davey ask, "You mean it?"
Some looked happy. Some were
very quiet. In a short time they had all
been hugged and welcomed.
Then there was another knock, and more children were on the porch.
“I am glad we made more cookies,” said Mrs. Newton.
Then more came, and more. Their house was full of children, of all sizes and
ages! It was more than they had hoped for.
The ones who liked trucks and trains had trucks and trains to play with. The
ones who liked dolls had dolls. They played with the doll-house. They were pleasedthat Mr. Newton had made all the dolls and toys for them.
They had a wonderful time all afternoon.
The children left late in the afternoon. They promised
to come back the next Saturday.
The neat little house was a mess. Even the clock went
tock-tick. But Mrs. Newton looked very pleased. “Do you
think there were enough toys and cookies for everybody?”
she asked.
“There was enough of everything.” said Mr. Newton.
“Toys and cookies and LOVE!”
