The first day in the land of apples was a bitter-cold one; for
the snow still covered the ground, and the trees were bare. A large
bell rang for breakfast, its loud metallic voice crashing through the
belfry overhead and into our sensitive ears. The annoying clatter
of shoes on bare floors gave us no peace. The constant clash of
harsh noises, with an undercurrent of many voices murmuring an
unknown tongue, made a bedlam within which I was securely tied.
And though my spirit tore itself in struggling for its lost freedom,
all was useless.
A paleface woman, with white hair, came up after us. We
were placed in a line of girls who were marching into the dining
room. These were Indian girls, in stiff shoes and closely clinging
dresses. The small girls wore sleeved aprons and shingled hair.
As I walked noiselessly in my soft moccasins, I felt like sinking to
the floor, for my blanket had been stripped from my shoulders. I
looked hard at the Indian girls, who seemed not to care that they
were even more immodestly dressed than I, in their tightly fitting
clothes. While we marched in, the boys entered at an opposite
door. I watched for the three young braves who came in our
party. I spied them in the rear ranks, looking as uncomfortable
as I felt. A small bell was tapped, and each of the pupils drew a
chair from under the table. Supposing this act meant they were
to be seated, I pulled out mine and at once slipped into it from
one side. But when I turned my head, I saw that I was the only
one seated, and all the rest at our table remained standing. Just
as I began to rise, looking shyly around to see how chairs were to
be used, a second bell was sounded. All were seated at last, and
I had to crawl back into my chair again. I heard a man’s voice at
one end of the hall, and I looked around to see him. But all the
others hung their heads over their plates. As I glanced at the long
chain of tables, I caught the eyes of a paleface woman upon me.
Immediately I dropped my eyes, wondering why I was so keenly
watched by the strange woman. The man ceased his mutterings,
and then a third bell was tapped. Every one picked up his knife
and fork and began eating. I began crying instead, for by this time
I was afraid to venture anything more.But this eating by formula was not the hardest trial in that
first day. Late in the morning, my friend Judewin gave me a terrible
warning. Judewin knew a few words of English; and she had
overheard the paleface woman talk about cutting our long, heavy
hair. Our mothers had taught us that only unskilled warriors who
were captured had their hair shingled by the enemy. Among our
people, short hair was worn by mourners, and shingled hair by
cowards!
We discussed our fate some moments, and when Judewin said,
“We have to submit, because they are strong,” I rebelled.
“No, I will not submit! I will struggle first!” I answered.
I watched my chance, and when no one noticed, I disappeared.
I crept up the stairs as quietly as I could in my squeaking shoes,
— my moccasins had been exchanged for shoes. Along the hall I
passed, without knowing whither I was going. Turning aside to an
open door, I found a large room with three white beds in it. The
windows were covered with dark green curtains, which made the
room very dim. Thankful that no one was there, I directed my steps
toward the corner farthest from the door. On
my hands and knees I crawled under the bed,
and huddled myself in the dark corner.
From my hiding place I peered out,
shuddering with fear whenever I heard footsteps
near by. Though in the hall loud voices were
calling my name, and I knew that even Judewin
was searching for me, I did not open my mouth
to answer. Then the steps were quickened and
the voices became excited.
The sounds came nearer
and nearer. Women and
girls entered the room.
I held my breath and
watched them open
closet doors and
peep behind large
trunks. Some
one threw up thecurtains, and the room was filled with sudden light. What caused
them to stoop and look under the bed I do not know. I remember
being dragged out, though I resisted by kicking and scratching
wildly. Inspite of myself, I was carried downstairs and tied fast in
a chair.
I cried aloud, shaking my head all the while until I felt the cold
blades of the scissors against my neck, and heard them gnaw off
one of my thick braids. Then I lost my spirit. Since the day I was
taken from my mother I had suffered extreme indignities. People
had stared at me. I had been tossed about in the air like a wooden
puppet. And now my long hair was shingled like a coward’s! In my
anguish I moaned for my mother, but no one came to comfort me.
Not a soul reasoned quietly with me, as my own mother used to do;
for now I was only one of many little animals driven by a herder.