It was the summer of 1880. A healthy baby girl was born
in a small town in Alabama. Her parents loved her dearly
and named her Helen Keller. But one day, the baby
became ill and day after day, her fever stayed high.
Everyone in the family tried to help her to get better, but
all they could say was, “There is nothing more we can do.
The baby may not live.”
Helen lived. But she was not the same after her illness.
“Something is very wrong,” her mother said. At last they
found out what was wrong. The child could not see or hear.
The baby grew into a little girl. Her parents felt sorry for
her. Helen often cried and held on to her mother. “Give the
poor child what she wants,” her father would say.
Though Helen could not hear or see, she was a bright
little girl. Some people thought Helen could not learn
anything. Her mother did not agree. “Helen is very smart,”
she said and added, “the problem is, how can we reach
her? She is locked
up inside herself.”
Helen began to
grow wild. She
would not let
anyone comb her
hair. Her clothes
were always dirty. She was often angry. Sometimes she
even lay on the floor and kicked her feet.
Her parents thought that they should find a teacher
for her. Miss Sullivan, a young teacher agreed to help
Helen to learn to see the world. Miss Sullivan gave
Helen a doll. “D_O_L_L” spells
doll. She spelt the
word with her
fingers into
Helen’s hand.
She made the
letters with
special hand
signs.
Helen copied
her teacher and
spelt D_O_L_L
too, but she did not
understand what she was
doing. Helen liked Miss Sullivan. She was strict but
kind. She spelt a lot of words for Helen, on her hand,
day and night, to make Helen understand.
One day, her teacher made Helen put her hand into
running water. Then, she spelt W_A_T_E_R. Suddenly
Helen understood that W_A_T_E_R meant something
wet, running over her hand. She understood that words
were the most important things in
the world. Words would tell her
everything she wanted to know.
