Mukesh insists on being his own master. “I will be a motor
mechanic,” he announces.
“Do you know anything about cars?” I ask.
“I will learn to drive a car,” he answers, looking straight into my
eyes. His dream looms like a mirage amidst the dust of streets that
fill his town Firozabad, famous for its bangles. Every other family in
Firozabad is engaged in making bangles.
It is the centre of India’s glass-blowing
industry where families have spent
generations working around furnaces,
welding glass, making bangles for all the
women in the land it seems.
Mukesh’s family is among them. None
of them know that it is illegal for children
like him to work in the glass furnaces with
high temperatures, in dingy cells without
air and light; that the law, if enforced, could get him and all those 20,000 children out of the hot furnaces
where they slog their daylight hours, often losing the brightness of
their eyes. Mukesh’s eyes beam as he volunteers to take me home,
which he proudly says is being rebuilt. We walk down stinking lanes
choked with garbage, past homes that remain hovels with crumbling
walls, wobbly doors, no windows, crowded with families of humans
and animals coexisting in a primeval state. He stops at the door of
one such house, bangs a wobbly iron door with his foot, and pushes
it open. We enter a half-built shack. In one part of it, thatched with
dead grass, is a firewood stove over which sits a large vessel of
sizzling spinach leaves. On the ground, in large aluminium platters,
are more chopped vegetables. A frail young woman is cooking the
evening meal for the whole family. Through eyes filled with smoke
she smiles. She is the wife of Mukesh’s elder brother. Not much
older in years, she has begun to command respect as the bahu, the
daughter-in-law of the house, already in charge of three men — her
husband, Mukesh and their father. When the older man enters, she
gently withdraws behind the broken wall and brings her veil closer
to her face. As custom demands, daughters-in-law must veil their
faces before male elders. In this case the elder is an impoverished
bangle maker. Despite long years of hard labour, first as a tailor,
then a bangle maker, he has failed to renovate a house, send his
two sons to school. All he has managed to do is teach them what
he knows — the art of making bangles.
“It is his karam, his destiny,” says Mukesh’s grandmother,
who has watched her own husband go blind with the dust from
polishing the glass of bangles. “Can a god-given lineage ever be
broken?” she implies. Born in the caste of bangle makers, they
have seen nothing but bangles — in the house, in the yard, in
every other house, every other yard, every street in Firozabad.
Spirals of bangles — sunny gold, paddy green, royal blue,
pink, purple, every colour born out of the seven colours of the
rainbow — lie in mounds in unkempt yards, are piled on fourwheeled handcarts, pushed by young men along the narrow lanes
of the shanty town. And in dark hutments, next to lines of flames of
flickering oil lamps, sit boys and girls with their fathers and mothers,
welding pieces of coloured glass into circles of bangles. Their eyes
are more adjusted to the dark than to the light outside. That is why
they often end up losing their eyesight before they become adults.
Savita, a young girl in a drab pink dress, sits alongside an
elderly woman, soldering pieces of glass. As her hands move
mechanically like the tongs of a machine, I wonder if she knows
the sanctity of the bangles she helps make. It symbolises an Indian
woman’s suhaag, auspiciousness in marriage. It will dawn on her
suddenly one day when her head is draped with a red veil, her
hands dyed red with henna, and red bangles rolled onto her wrists.
She will then become a bride. Like the old woman beside her who
became one many years ago. She still has bangles on her wrist, but
no light in her eyes. “Ek waqt ser bhar khana bhi nahin khaya,”
she says, in a voice drained of joy. She has not enjoyed even one
full meal in her entire lifetime — that’s what she has reaped! Her
husband, an old man with a flowing beard, says, “I know nothing
except bangles. All I have done is make a house for the family to
live in.”
Hearing him, one wonders if he has achieved what many have
failed in their lifetime. He has a roof over his head!
The cry of not having money to do anything
except carry on the business of making bangles,
not even enough to eat, rings in every home.
The young men echo the lament of their
elders. Little has moved with time,
it seems, in Firozabad. Years
of mind-numbing toil have
killed all initiative and
the ability to dream.
“Why not organise
y o u r s e l v e s i n t o a
cooperative?” I ask a
group of young men
who have fallen into the
vicious circle of
middlemen who
trapped their
fathers and
f o r e f a t h e r s .
“Even if we get organised, we are the ones who will be hauled up by the police,
beaten and dragged to jail for doing something illegal,” they say.
There is no leader among them, no one who could help them see
things differently. Their fathers are as tired as they are. They talk
endlessly in a spiral that moves from poverty to apathy to greed
and to injustice.
Listening to them, I see two distinct worlds— one of the family,
caught in a web of poverty, burdened by the stigma of caste in
which they are born; the other a vicious circle of the sahukars, the
middlemen, the policemen, the keepers of law, the bureaucrats
and the politicians. Together they have imposed the baggage on the
child that he cannot put down. Before he is aware, he accepts it as
naturally as his father. To do anything else would mean to dare. And
daring is not part of his growing up. When I sense a flash of it in
Mukesh I am cheered. “I want to be a motor mechanic,’ he repeats.
He will go to a garage and learn. But the garage is a long way from
his home. “I will walk,” he insists. “Do
you also dream of flying a plane?” He is
suddenly silent. “No,” he says, staring
at the ground. In his small murmur
there is an embarrassment that has not
yet turned into regret. He is content to
dream of cars that he sees hurtling down
the streets of his town. Few airplanes fly
over Firozabad.