I had the train compartment to myself upto Rohana, then a girl got in. The couple who
saw her off were probably her parents. They seemed very anxious about her comfort
and the woman gave the girl detailed instructions as to where to keep her things, when
not to lean out of windows, and how to avoid speaking to strangers.
They called their goodbyes and the train
pulled out of the station. As I was totally
blind at the time, my eyes sensitive only
to light and darkness, I was unable to
tell what the girl looked like. But I
knew she wore slippers from the
way they slapped against her heels.
It would take me some time to
discover something about her
looks and perhaps I never would.
But I liked the sound of her voice
and even the sound of her slippers.
“Are you going all the way to
Dehra?” I asked.
I must have been sitting in a dark
corner because my voice startled her.
She gave a little exclamation and said,
“I didn’t know anyone else was here.”
Well, it often happens that people with
good eyesight fail to see what is right in
front of them. They have too much to take in, I suppose. Whereas people who cannot
see (or see very little) have to take in only the essentials, whatever registers tellingly on
their remaining senses.
“I didn’t see you either,” I said. “But I heard you come in.”
I wondered if I would be able to prevent her from discovering that I was blind. “Provided
I keep to my seat” I thought, “it shouldn’t be too difficult.” The girl said, “I am getting
off at Saharanpur. My aunt is meeting me there.”
“Then I had better not get too familiar,” I thought. “Aunts are usually formidable
creatures.”
“Where are you going?” she asked.
 “To Dehra and then to Mussoorie.”
“Oh, how lucky you are. I wish I were going to Mussoorie. I love the hills; especially in
October.”
“Yes, this is the best time,” I said, calling on my memories. “The hills are covered with
wild dahlias, the sun is delicious, and at night you can sit in front of a log fire and drink
a little brandy. Most of the tourists have gone and the roads are quiet and almost
deserted. Yes, October is the best time.”
She was silent. I wondered if my words had touched her or whether she thought me a
romantic fool. Then I made a mistake.
“What is it like outside?” I asked.
She seemed to find nothing strange in the question. Had she noticed already that I
could not see? But her next question removed my doubts.
“Why don’t you look out of the window?” she asked.
I moved easily along the berth and felt for the window ledge. The window was open
and I faced it, making a pretence of studying the landscape. I heard the panting of the
engine, the rumble of the wheels, and, in my mind’s eye I could see telegraph posts
flashing by.
“Have you noticed,” I ventured, “that the trees seem to be moving while we seem to be
standing still?”
“That always happens,” she said. “Do you see any animals?”
“No,” I answered quite confidently. I knew that there were hardly any animals left in the
forests near Dehra.
I turned from the window and faced the girl and for a while we sat in silence.
“You have an interesting face,” I remarked. I was becoming quite daring but it was a
safe remark. Few girls can resist flattery. She laughed pleasantly—a clear, ringing laugh.
“It’s nice to be told I have an interesting face. I’m tired of people telling me I have a
pretty face.”
Oh, so you do have a pretty face, thought I. And aloud I said,“Well, an interesting face
can also be pretty.”
117
“You are a very gallant young man.” she said. “But why are you so serious?”
I thought, then, that I would try to laugh for her, but the thought of laughter only made
me feel troubled and lonely.
“We’ll soon be at your station.” I said.
“Thank goodness it’s a short journey. I can’t bear to sit in a train for more than two or
three hours.”
Yet I was prepared to sit there for almost any length of time, just to listen to her talking.
Her voice had the sparkle of a mountain stream. As soon as she left the train she would
forget our brief encounter. But it would stay with me for the rest of the journey and for
some time after.
The engine’s whistle shrieked, the carriage wheels changed their sound and rhythm, the
girl got up and began to collect her things. I wondered if she wore her hair in a bun or if
it was plaited. Perhaps it was hanging loose over her shoulders. Or was it cut very
short?
The train drew slowly into the station. Outside, there was the shouting of porters and
vendors and a high-pitched female voice near the carriage door. That voice must have
belonged to the girl’s aunt.
“Goodbye!” the girl said.
She was standing very close to me. So close that the perfume from her hair was
tantalizing. I wanted to raise my hand and touch her hair but she moved away. Only the
scent of perfume still lingered where she had stood.
There was some confusion in the doorway. A man, getting into the compartment,
stammered an apology. Then the door banged and the world was shut out again. I
returned to my berth. The guard blew his whistle and we moved off. Once again I had a
game to play and a new fellow traveller.
The train gathered speed, the wheels took up their song, the carriage groaned and
shook. I found the window and sat in front of it, staring into the daylight that was
darkness for me.
So many things were happening outside the window. It could be a fascinating game
guessing what went on out there.
The man who had entered the compartment broke into my reverie.
“You must be disappointed,” he said. “I’m not nearly as attractive a travelling companion
as the one who just left.”