MIDWAY between Mysore and the coastal town of
Mangalore sits a piece of heaven that must have
drifted from the kingdom of god. This land of rolling
hills is inhabited by a proud race of martial men,
beautiful women and wild creatures.
Coorg, or Kodagu, the smallest district of
Karnataka, is home to evergreen rainforests, spices
and coffee plantations. Evergreen rainforests cover
thirty per cent of this district. During the monsoons,
it pours enough to keep many visitors away. The
season of joy commences from September and
continues till March. The weather is perfect, with
some showers thrown in for
good measure. The air
breathes of invigorating
coffee. Coffee estates and
colonial bungalows stand
tucked under tree canopies
in prime corners.
The fiercely independent
people of Coorg are possibly
of Greek or Arabic descent.
As one story goes, a part of
Alexander’s army moved
south along the coast and
settled here when return
became impractical. These
people married amongst the
locals and their culture is
apparent in the martial
traditions, marriage and
religious rites, which are
distinct from the Hindu
mainstream. The theory of
Arab origin draws support
from the long, black coatwith an embroidered waist-belt worn by the Kodavus.
Known as kuppia, it resembles the kuffia worn by
the Arabs and the Kurds.
Coorgi homes have a tradition of hospitality, and
they are more than willing to recount numerous
tales of valour related to their sons and fathers.
The Coorg Regiment is one of the most decorated in
the Indian Army, and the first Chief of the Indian
Army, General Cariappa, was a Coorgi. Even now,
Kodavus are the only people in India permitted to
carry firearms without a licence.
The river, Kaveri, obtains its water from the hills
and forests of Coorg. Mahaseer — a large freshwater
fish — abound in these waters. Kingfishers dive for
their catch, while squirrels and langurs drop
partially eaten fruit for the mischief of enjoying the
splash and the ripple effect in the clear water.
Elephants enjoy being bathed and scrubbed in the
river by their mahouts.
The most laidback individuals become converts
to the life of high-energy adventure with river rafting,
canoeing, rappelling, rock climbing and mountainbiking. Numerous walking trails in this region are
a favourite with trekkers.
Birds, bees and butterflies are there to give you
company. Macaques, Malabar squirrels, langurs and
slender loris keep a watchful eye from the tree canopy.
I do, however, prefer to step aside for wild elephants.
The climb to the Brahmagiri hills brings you
into a panoramic view of the entire misty landscape
of Coorg. A walk across the rope bridge leads to the
sixty-four-acre island of Nisargadhama. Running
into Buddhist monks from India’s largest Tibetan
settlement, at nearby Bylakuppe, is a bonus. The
monks, in red, ochre and yellow robes, are amongst
the many surprises that wait to be discovered by
visitors searching for the heart and soul of India,
right here in Coorg