About two thousand and five
hundred years ago, Persia was a mighty
kingdom. Their large army had landed
in the bay near the town of Marathon.
Their target was Athens, a city state
in Greece. Athens had a small army
compared to the Persian one. But the
Athenian soldiers were very brave.
They had faced the Persians before,
but they needed help from other Greek
kingdoms now. They decided to send a
special messenger to the neighbouring
kingdom of Sparta. His name was
Pheidippides.
Pheidippides was a young man who
served as a ‘day-long runner’. He ran
to Sparta like the wind. He covered the
distance of nearly a hundred kilometres in a day. But alas! The people of Sparta
were busy with some ceremonies.
They did not want to join the battle
immediately. Pheidippides took this
message back to Athens with a heavy
heart, but on light feet. Again, he ran a
hundred kilometres within a day.
When the Generals of Athens heard
the cold Spartan response, they did not
lose heart. They were ready to fight
on their own. The Persian army was
watching Athens like a cat watches a
mousehole. So, they decided to launch
a surprise attack on the Persians. The
Athenian Generals sent their flanks
round the Persian forces like speeding
arrows and began to draw them in.
The Persians were not ready for battle. 

Even so, they were skilled archers.
They showered arrows on the soldiers
of Athens. But the arrows simply fell off
their helmets and strong armours. Also,
the Athenians knew their seashore well.
The Persians were new to the terrain.
Many of them were killed. Many more
were injured. Some of them were lost in
the marshy areas. The brave Athenians
drove back every single remaining
Persian soldier back to their ships
anchored in the bay. The battle was
over within a few hours.
The battle was over but the Persians
did not accept defeat. They saw that the
entire army of Athens had rushed to the
seashore, leaving the city of Athens far
behind. Only the aged people, women
and children were left in the city. The
Persians now devised a new plan. The
sea-route to the city of Athens was much
shorter than the land route. The Persians
decided to take the sea-route and pounce
upon Athens from the seaside. The Athenian army would take very long to
travel back to Athens on foot, with their
heavy armour and weapons. Seeing the
Persians, the defenceless people in the
city of Athens would think that Athens
had lost the battle. Then it would be easy
for the Persians to take over the city.
The Athenian Generals too, were
good strategists. When they saw the
Persian fleet leave in a hurry, they
understood the Persian plan. They
resolved to go back to Athens as fast
as possible to defend it. But, it was
very necessary to let the people of
Athens know that they had won. Then
they would not open the city gates to
the Persians. They would wait for the
victorious Athenian army to return. The
city would be safe. Who would take this
message to them? The message must be
delivered before the Persians reached
there. Who would travel faster than the
Persian ships and that too, on a longer
route? Who else but Pheidippides ! 

Pheidippides had already completed
a run of more than two hundred
kilometres just the day before. But he
was a brave young man. He would do
anything for his State. Also, this time he
was to carry a happy message.
It was not easy for Pheidippides to
reach Athens sooner than the Persians
did. That is why, this time, he left the
usual safe route and chose another one
that passed through cliffs and mountains
but was much shorter.
Pheidippides scaled the first steep
cliff and picked up speed. He had to
run more than forty kilometres. It was
very hot. He began to perspire. There
were some shady olive trees on one side
of the road. But Pheidippides couldn’t
wait, couldn’t rest. He just ran on and
on. His heart began to beat faster, he
became weak with hunger and thirst,
but he didn’t stop.
At last, Pheidippides came within
sight of the city-gates of Athens! He was successful in his mission. He had
reached before the Persians.
The people of Athens threw open
the gates to Pheidippides.
“What happened, Pheidippides? Do
you bring good news or......?”
“Yes ! Yes ! Joy to you ! We won !
We won ! ” As soon as Pheidippides had
delivered this message, he collapsed -
never to rise again. He had laid down
his life in the service of Athens.
The story of Pheidippides has
inspired the people of Greece for
many centuries. His historic run from
Marathon to Athens became a legend.
When the Olympic Games were
started in Greece, this legendary event
was commemorated in it in the form
of the sporting event, the marathon.
Today, marathons are arranged in many
countries. When you see one, or when
you are old enough to take part in on