In a time before time began, in a place just north of the Enchanted Forest that exists in the imagination of everyone, a group of elves decided to settle.

They had left the Enchanted Forest at half past yesterday and arrived at a quarter 'til today. They loved the cold and snow, as did the reindeer they brought with them. That place is called the North Pole by some.

On their journey, no one was sure what lay ahead, so five fairies, the Blue Fairy, Green Fairy, Orange Fairy, Pink Fairy, and Yellow Fairy, scouted the area as they went. 
The Nutcracker and his soldiers followed. The fairies had made the Nutcracker's sleigh magic, so it glided over the snow without being pulled by any animal. 
Behind the Nutcracker were a dozen elves in a large sleigh. There were two woodworkers, two cobblers, two tailors, two bakers, two confectioners, and two reindeer shepherds.

Various other elves also came along, in sleighs pulled by reindeer. They were helpers for the craftsmen elves. 
The elves sang Jingle Bells as they glided over the snow. They were dashing through the snow in a one-reindeer open sleigh.

In the last sleigh was a jolly old elf and his wife. His name was Santa Claus and he was a master of all crafts. He was especially skilled at making toys. He was also the elf that all the others greatly respected because he was kind and generous to all, as was his wife.

Upon arriving at the North Pole, the elves built houses for themselves, and barns and corrals for the reindeer. 
To light and warm their homes, the elves used sunbeads. The sunbeams came through their windows and formed sunbeads in jars on tables. 
As it became dark, the sunbeads glowed with a warm soothing light. When it was time for bed, the elves blew them out like candles.

Sunbeams also went down the chimneys when the sun was directly overhead. 
Each fireplace had a glass door that kept the sunbeams from coming into the room. The sunbeams became sunbeads and warmed the elves' homes in the cold North Pole.

The elves also built shops where they practiced their crafts. The woodworkers made toys. The cobblers made shoes. The tailors made clothes. The bakers made cookies and cakes, and the confectioners made the finest candies; peppermint candies, in particular. Soon, the shops were full of their wares.

The five fairies who came along were all sisters, and loved the sugar plums that the confectioners made. The elves called them the Sugar Plum Fairies. They could magically appear in different parts of the world at random.

One day, eons after the elves arrived at the North pole, the Green Fairy was in Turkey. She saw an old man with a white beard, wearing a long red gown. He was carrying a large red bag and would stop at each house and give each child a gift. Some gifts were toys, other gifts were food for those who were very hungry. Still others were clothes or shoes for the children in rags. That man's name was Saint Nicholas.


The Green Fairy returned to the North Pole and called a meeting of everyone there. She told them about Saint Nicholas. 
In the Enchanted Forest, the elves had done something similar. On Saturdays, after selling their wares at Scarborough Fair, just outside Bremen Town, they would give things to the poor and needy. They still do that to this day. Elves are known for being kind and generous.

One cobbler said, "We helped a poor 
shoemaker by making shoes for him 
until his business was thriving. And his 
wife made beautiful clothes for us. They 
are the kind of clothes you all are 
wearing now." 
Another elf said, "Yes, and the tailors made these beautiful clothes for us."

A tailor elf said, "We also made clothes to help the old woman who lives in a shoe, with so many children she doesn't know what to do." 
Mrs. Claus said, "And I brought them food, so they would have more than bread without broth, before they went to bed."

A woodworker elf told her story. "We made a puppet that looked like a boy, for a poor old wood carver who wanted a son." 
The Blue Fairy added, "And I made the puppet come alive. I told him if he behaved I would make him into a real boy. After some troubles, he straightened up, and now he is a real boy. The wood carver is so happy, as is the boy."

A baker said, "We made dog biscuits for old Mother Hubbard. When she looked in her cupboard, she had none, and her dog was so hungry. We delivered them and the dog was so grateful." 
Another baker said, "We also gave a poor hungry dog a bag of biscuits. I heard on his way home he went over the troll bridge, and looked into the river. He saw himself and thought it was another dog with biscuits. The troll jumped up and scared him and he dropped the bag. Too bad. The troll ate all the biscuits and laughed. Trolls are so troublesome."

The elves decided they wanted to be like Saint Nicholas. They liked helping others in the Enchanted Forest. 
One elf suggested "We could give away all the things we make to children around the world." 
All the elves cheered in agreement. But how? The world is a big place, and elves are not magic like the fairies, who can appear in far-flung places in the blink of an eye.

The Orange Fairy said, "I can help. I can make reindeer fly, and make one of you magic for a day. That elf will be able to travel the world in a sleigh pulled by the reindeer, and deliver gifts by going down the chimneys of houses, all in one night." 
The elves thought this was a grand idea. But who would be that special elf who would deliver the gifts?

One elf said, "It should be Santa. He is the kindest and most generous of all." 
The elf called Santa said, "Thank you! I would be honored to do this." And then he laughed. "Ho Ho Ho!"

The elves cheered once again. 
The Pink Fairy said to Santa, "And I will make you red clothes like Saint Nicholas, all trimmed in white." 
She waved her wand and Santa was now dressed in his red suit and hat. He laughed again. "Ho Ho Ho!"

So now you know how Christmas began. 
For Santa and all the elves, gifts are a way of giving. They believe Christmas is about giving, not getting. 
Merry Christmas, everyone!