Deep in a forest stood a very tall tree. Its leafy
branches spread out like strong arms.
This tree was the home of a flock of wild geese.
They felt safe there. One of the geese was a wise old
bird.
He noticed a small creeper at the foot of the tree.
He spoke to the other birds about it.
“Do you see that creeper?” he said to them. “Let
us destroy it”. “Why must we destroy it?” asked the
geese in surprise. “It is so small. What harm can it
do?” “My friends,” replied the wise old bird, “that
little creeper will soon grow. As it creeps up this tree,
it will become thick and strong.”
“What of that?” asked the geese. “What harm can
a creeper do us?”
“Don't you see?” replied the wise bird, “with the
help of that creeper, it will be possible for someone to
climb this tree. A hunter can come up and kill us
all.”“Well there’s no hurry,” they replied, “the creeper is
very small. It would be a pity to destroy it now.”
“Destroy the creeper while it is still young,” the old
bird advised. “Now it is tender and
you can cut it easily. Later it will
become hard and you will
not be able to cut it.”
“We’ll see, we’ll
see,” answered
the birds. But
they did not
destroy the
creeper. .
They forgot
the wise old
bird’s advice. As
the creeper grew, it
began winding its way up
the tree.
Stronger and stronger it became,
until it was as strong as a thick rope.
One morning when the geese had
gone out in search of food, a hunter
came to the forest.
“So this is where the wild geese
live,” he said to himself. “When they
come back in the evening, I shall
catch them.”
The hunter climbed up the
tree with the help of the
creeper. He got to the top andspread his net there. Then he climbed down and went
away.
In the evening, the geese returned home. They did not
notice the net. As they flew into the tree, they were
trapped. They struggled hard to get out, but could not.
“Help! Help!” cried the geese. “We are caught in the
hunter’s net. Oh! What shall we do?”
“Don’t make a fuss now,” said the wise old bird. “Long ago I told
you to destroy the creeper, but you did not. Now see what has
happened. Tomorrow morning the hunter will come back and kill
us all.”
“We were foolish,” wept the birds. “We are very sorry we did not
listen to you. Please tell us what to do?”
“Then listen carefully,” replied the wise bird. “When the hunter
comes you must all pretend to be dead. Just lie still. The hunter
will not want dead birds. He will throw us to the ground. It will then
be easy for him to climb down, collect the dead birds, and take
them home. When the last of us has
been thrown down, we must quickly
get up and fly away.”
In the morning the hunter came to the
tree and climbed up. He looked at the
geese in the net.
“They are all dead,” he muttered to himself.
He threw them out of the net one by one. The birds lay
still until the last one had been thrown down. Then, all
at once, they got up, flapped their wings, and flew away.
The hunter was taken by surprise. From the top of the
tree he watched all the geese fly away.