You may have read many stories
about three brothers. Usually, two of
them - the elder ones are strong, clever
but unkind. They laugh at the youngest
one because he is too simple and softhearted.
Our story also has three brothers
who lived in a small town but they were
all three of them honest, kind and hardworking. The elder one ran a shop, the
middle one was a priest and the youngest
one had just finished his education. He
had started taking up odd jobs to earn
some money and to learn a trade. All
three of them were fond of their mother.
She had worked hard to bring up the
three of them after the sudden death of
their father.
One day, their father’s friend visited
the mother. He said, “Sister, you know
that I have a very prosperous business.
But now I am getting old, and my only
daughter is of a marriageable age. I am
looking for a son-in-law who would be
a good husband to my daughter and
who would also handle my business
well. I like all your sons. If you permit,
I’ll marry my daughter to one of them
but before that I have a plan.”
He discussed the plan with her and
she agreed quite readily.
The next day, the friend went to
each of the three brothers one by one.
He gave them each a sack of rice and
said, “My dear boy, I am going away
for a few months for some necessary
work. Please look after this sack of rice
till I come back.”
The friend went away. Many
months passed but he did not return.
It was nearly a year before he came
back. He visited the eldest brother first.
The eldest brother welcomed him and
gave him a small purse full of money.
“Uncle, you had left a sack of rice with
me. After a few months, I was worried
that it may get spoilt. Therefore I sold
the rice to my customers. Here’s the
money I got. Please accept it.”
“Thank you, my boy, you are such
an honest person !

Then the friend went to see the
middle brother, who was a priest. The
priest greeted him with joy and affection.
He said, “Uncle, remember you had left
a sack of rice with me, an year ago ? I
had kept it for many months, but then
I was worried that it may get spoilt. I
distributed the rice among the poor in
your name. They all blessed you for
satisfying their hunger. However, I did
that without your permission and I am
willing to pay you back for the rice.” “No, my boy, you acted wisely and
kindly. The blessings that I got from the
poor people are enough for me. Please
don’t even think about the money any
more.”
When the friend went to visit the
youngest son, he, too, welcomed him
with love and respect. But he said that he had a confession to make. “The sack
of rice was lying with me for a long
time. But then I had an idea. I often
go to a neighbouring farm to help with
the work. I borrowed an unused plot
of land from the farmer. I exchanged
the sack of rice for paddy and sowed
the paddy in the plot. Fortunately,
the crop grew well and yielded
twenty-five sacks of rice. I have kept
back five of the sacks and sold twenty
of them. Here’s the money. If you
allow, I would like to keep a part of it
as my share considering the labour and
money I spent to get it all done.” A wide smile spread on the friend’s
face. He had found his future son-inlaw.