Once upon a time, there
was a gardener called Jagatu.
He was employed in the king’s
garden. It was a beautiful garden.
Jagatu used to spend the whole day
in the garden. He used to go home
only at night.
One night, however, he had to remain in the garden.
Suddenly he heard a loud noise. Jagatu hid himself behind a big tree in greatfear. He saw a large elephant descending from the sky. It was roaming about in
the garden. After a while, Jagatu left his hiding-place, and sat down on the edge
of a tank. As he sat there he said to himself, “In my whole life, I have never
seen such an enormous elephant. But I remember about a heavenly elephant,
called ‘Airavata’. No doubt, this is that elephant.” He got up and began to walk
quietly after the elephant. It ate various fruits and roots that grew in the garden.
Jagatu caught its long tail, when it was about to ascend to the sky again.
When they arrived in heaven Jagatu let go the elephant’s tail. Airavata
departed for Indra’s palace and Jagatu began to roam about in the heaven.
Everything was of such a huge size that the sight filled him with amazement. He
got some betel-leaves (pan-patta) and some betel-nuts (supari). Both the betelleaves and the betel-nuts were very big.
Next night, Airavata went down to the garden with Jagatu hanging on to its
tail. As soon as they got there, Jagatu let go the tail, and hurried back home. His
wife was looking for him. As soon as she saw him coming, she ran to meet him
and cried, “Where have you been?” Jagatu, without saying a word, brought out
the big betel-leaves and betel nuts. At the sight of them his wife was filled with
joy. “Where did you get these?”, she exclaimed.
Jagatu, then, told his wife all about his adventures. He also told her not to
tell it to anyone. But she told the whole story to a friend of hers and soon everybody
in the village knew about it. The villagers asked Jagatu to take them also to
heaven.
That night, when the elephant was about to depart, Jagatu quickly got behind
him and caught his tail. Then, they all held one another in a queue. On their way,
a friend of Jagatu’s wife asked her,“How big was the betel-nut that your husband
brought home?” His wife repeated the question to Jagatu. Jagatu said that he
would answer that later, but she insisted.Jagatu lost patience and spreading his hands, said “This big”. As he
spread his arms to show the size of the nut, he lost his grip on the elephant’s
tail. And in a moment they all came tumbling down