Far from Ysbaddaden, a king named Cilydd lost his wife. Driven mad by the sight of pigs, she gave him a son and then died. 
Eighteen winters later, the king found a new wife. She was eager to make a family of the son, and said he would make a good match for her daughter. 
But the son - whose name was Culhwch -protested that he was too young. And offended, the wife blue with fury cursed him. -
She said that in this case, he would marry none but the daughter of the fearsome giant Ysbaddaden. 
In saying so, what she meant to say, is that the probability being so unlikely, Culhwch would marry no one at all. 
But something rather different happened.

At the mention of the giant's daughter, Culhwch coloured. His cheeks went the tone of musk, as he felt a love for this unknown maiden infuse every part of him. It ran headlong through the veins of his body, and tingled out to the very surface of his skin. 
His father, seeing him turn pink, asked, "Why are you that shade? Are you sick?" 
Still blushing, Culhwch said, "My stepmother said I would marry none but the daughter of the giant Ysbaddaden." 
"And do you want to?" 
"Yes!" he said vehemently. 
It was not experience which spoke, but something instead like destiny. It made him more certain of his love for her than he had ever been of any of the real things in his life. 
The King knew how he felt, for he had once loved his mother the same.

Culhwch staged himself in a manner befitting a kinsman of King Arthur. He set off for his cousin's kingdom on a young, sleek horse, which playfully reared as he rode. It was magnificent, with decorated hoofs, a golden bridle and saddle, and hair brushed until it was glossy as water.  Culhwch himself was also adorned in finery: he rode like a child of the sun. He carried two spears of shining silver, a honed golden battle-axe with a diamond handpiece, and a gold-bladed sword which nestled into his thigh within a golden hilt. His feet were locked into golden stirrups. Draped around him was a fine woollen mantle of purple, with four golden-red apples embroidered onto it, one in each corner. And riding before him were two pale greyhounds, collared in rose gold.  At the gate to Arthur's castle, the guards would not let him in.  "If you do not let me in," said Culhwch, raising himself up in his saddle, "I will shout three times so loudly that it will be heard across the breadth of your lands. All the women in earshot will become barren."  Surprised, the guards let him through.

Culhwch entered the great stone hallway, marched through the merrymaking, and soon stood before the King, shining from head to toe as though dipped in gold. 
King Arthur saw something proud in his bearing; he rose from his chair and took him to a private room. 
"What do you want from me, golden stranger?" asked King Arthur. 
"I would like you to cut my hair," said Culhwch. 
Flattered, the King took out his instruments. For in his kingdom, when men cut hair together, they were binded for life. 
Sure enough, as he took Culhwch's fair curls between his fingers, he said, "I feel as though I know you; as though you must be my kinsman. Is it true?" 
"It is true," said Culhwch. 
"Then what do you seek?" 
"I seek the daughter of the giant Ysbaddaden." 
"Ah, that is a difficult path," murmured Arthur. "But I have more than two hundred men in my knighthood. I will find you six companions who will help you in your quest."

He gave him Cei, who could hold his breath under water for nine days and nine nights. Cei could strike a man and make a wound that would never heal. He could become as tall as the tallest tree in the forest whenever he pleased. And when it rained, he remained dry, for the fire in his blood ran hot and would evaporate the water before it hit him. Indeed, in the depths of winter, his brothers would nestle into him to stay warm and alive. 
Arthur also gave him Bedwyr, who was the fastest knight in the kingdom to wield a sword, despite having only one hand. 
He gave him Cynddylig the Guide, who knew every place as though he had been there before. 
He gave him Gwyhyr, Interpreter of Tongues, who could speak in any language, including the languages of trees, beasts, the sea, the moon and stars, the wind, fire, earth, and many more besides. 
He gave him Gwalchmei, who was the best rider in his kingdom, as well as the best walker. Gwalchmei also had the talent of never having lost a quest that he had sought, and so was a kind of lucky charm. 
And finally, Arthur gave him Menw, who could cast a spell so that they were invisible to everyone but themselves.

So formed, this little army of knights set off for the giant's castle in the desolate mountain valley, where Ysbaddaden's stench had killed every tree and bush, and nothing but stiff grass remained. 
Soon they saw the valley stretched out before them: it was green-grey and formless as a dream. A flock of sheep grazed on the stones, and there was no beginning or end to them. 
The knights walked for four days before they realised that they never got any closer to the fortified castle. Every day they set out was the same as the day before. 
On the fourth day, though, they saw an old shepherd with a bristled mastiff roaming through the furze and prickles. This dog, they saw, was something like a demon, for he had fiery breath which he habitually exhaled when he panted, singeing the stones and evaporating the stiff grass to ash. 
Cei told Gwyhyr to speak to the shepherd. "For you speak in all tongues," he said. "Find out why we cannot draw closer to the fortified castle." 
But Gwyhry refused. "I did not come here to go anywhere alone," he said. "We knights are better together." 
"Then I will cast a spell over the dog," said Menw, "So it will do harm to none." 

The shepherd was surprised to see them, but invited them home with his wife. They offered the knights a meal, which after days of wandering aimlessly across a barren land they were very happy to share. 
When the dinner was eaten and the cheese was laid out, the wife stood and opened a box beside the fireplace. Out of it stepped a young boy with brown, curly hair. 
"The giant Ysbaddaden has killed twenty three of my sons, she said. "And I do not hold hopes for this one either. 
Cei said "Let him join our knights, then, We will be killed together, or not at all." 
Pleased, the wife nodded. "But why have you come to this dreadful place?" she asked. 
"To seek the giant's daughter," Culhwch said eagerly. Just the thought of her had caused the blood to run to his face and to his limbs: he was dizzy with love. 
"Olwen!" said the woman. "That is dangerous!" 
Olwen! It was a beautiful name. Culhwch felt that he would swoon, 
"Can we see her?" he humbly asked. 
"Only if you promise not to do her harm," said the woman. They pledged it.

The giant's daughter Olwen was sent for and she came. 
She stepped through the doorway wearing a robe of silk the colour of a candle, eddying and flickering as the most lively of flames. Around her neck was a noble torque of rose gold, and her hair was studded with precious stones: rubies, garnets and sapphires. As though aflame with all this colour, her beauty was flushed: her cheeks a delicate pink against the exquisite pale of her face. 
Culhwch was sure that whoever beheld her would love her. And as he peered from the door behind her, he saw that white flowers sprang from wherever her strong feet had fallen. 
"Ah, maiden," said Culhwch, falling to his knees. "It is you I have always loved. Please come with me of your own accord, and I will make you as happy as you were born to be." 
Olwen looked at Culhwch and in that moment loved him too. Was it destiny? Or simply his earnest gaze, his open heart, and the determination that he had shown to have her? 
But "Alas, I cannot," she said regretfully. "My father will die the moment that I am wed; it is prophesied. All I can counsel is that you go and ask him for my hand, and do whatever he asks of you. Whatever he demands of you, promise to get it, and we will soon belong to each other."

The next morning, the couple showed Culhwch and Arthur's knights to the gate, and let them in. They found the giant Ysbaddaden, who was so surprised that he did not kill them at first sight, but rather believed himself to be dreaming. 
As he was eating at his breakfast table, he reached for his cutlery and said to Culhwch, "Use these two forks and raise up my eyelids so that I may see that I am not mad. 
Culhwch wedged the forks beneath his fearsome brow, and nearly swooned at the stench of him; at the years and years of breakfasts which were embedded in his beard, and the worms in his ears. 
"I wish to marry your daughter," Culhwch said. 
"Come tomorrow and I will give you my answer," said the giant. 
But as the knights turned to leave, he took one of three poisoned spears and hurled them at the party. Bedwyr, who was the fastest in the land, caught it and threw it back. It speared right through the ball of the giant's knee. His roars of pain rang in their ears as they retreated.

Yet they honoured their promise, and returned the next day to ask again. 
"My daughter has four great grandmothers and four great grandfathers," said Ysbaddaden this time. "As they are still alive, they will need to be asked. Come back tomorrow." 
Yet once again, as they left, the giant hurled a poisoned stone spear at them. This time Menw caught it, and hurled it back at the giant. It pierced him clean through the middle of his breast plate. His curses rained upon them as they retreated.

On the last day, they entered the room cautiously, saying, "Don't throw any more spears at us." The giant Ysbaddaden agreed, and asked once more that Culhwch put forks on his eyelids to hold them up. And this time, before he could even draw near, the giant hurled the last of his poisoned spears at Culhwch, who caught it and launched it back, where it penetrated the giant's great rheumy eye. 
With his hand clapped on his blinded eye, the giant finally agreed to talk to Culhwch. 
"You may marry my daughter," he said. "But you must do it the proper way. 
"I will," said Culhwch. 
"Firstly, then," said the giant. "Do you see that wild thicket that extends for one thousand miles behind the castle? You must uproot each weed, and burn the whole of it to the ground, so that the cinders and ashes fertilise it. Then you must plough it. It can only be cleared and ploughed by a strong man called Amaethon. He must come of his free will: you cannot compel him. He must furthermore use two oxen of Gwlwlydd, yoked together, also given freely. As you know, these oxen are so strong and so rare that they will be impossible to borrow. Then you must seed it with fine plants and flowers. This must all be done in one day. Only then will we have sufficient space for the wedding. 
"That will be easy for me to do, though you do not think it is easy," said Culhwch.

"I am not finished!" declared the giant. "Next, do you see that field over there? It looks empty, but it is filled with white and black flax that has not yet sprouted. You must find the white flax seeds, and replant them in this field, so that my daughter will have pure white flax for her veil." 
"That will be easy for me to do, though you do not think it is easy," said Culhwch. 
"And then!" said the giant. "You must find honey nine times sweeter than usual, without drone or queen, to make bragget for the feast. You must locate the cup of Llwyr, as no vessel is stronger to hold strong drink. It must be served in the horn of Gwlgawd Gododdin. And you must borrow the hamper of Gwyddneu Longshank, which overflows with enough meat to feed the world. None of these people will give up their treasures willingly, but willingly they must be given, in order for us to have food and drink for the feast." 
"That will be easy for me to do, though you do not think it is easy," said Culhwch.

"Now for the entertainment!" exclaimed the giant. 
"The harp of Teirtu is the only thing which may entertain the guests at a wedding fit for my daughter. This instrument is magical, for when a man pleases, it plays by itself. And when one wants silence, it stops. And likewise, the only possible worthy accompaniment is the music of the swallows of Rhiannon, which wake the dead and lull the living to sleep. All of these things are exceedingly difficult to find, and yet find them you must." 
"That will be easy for me to do, though you do not think it is easy," said Culhwch. 
"And lastly, I may not attend my daughter's wedding in such a state. Only the tusk of Ysgithyrwyn, Chief Boar, is fine enough to shave my forest of beard, but it will only work if it is plucked from the great swine's head while he is still alive. Then, the tusk must be kept by Cadw of Prydein, but I fear at the sight of the tusk he will become passionate about its ownership, and will not release it of his own free will. And lastly, even after combing my hair, I will only be able to tame it with the blood of the Black Witch, who lives in the Valley of Grief in the uplands of Hell. 
Culhwch nodded to all of these impossible demands. 
"I have horses, and King Arthur is my kinsman. I will win your daughter, and you will lose your life."

So avowed, Culhwch enlisted his companion, and Arthur and his two hundred other knights were also of service. 
Thus it was that Cei became tall as the tallest tree in the forest and located Ameathon in one corner of the kingdom, and the Oxen in the other. Cynddylig the Guide led Gwalchmei, the best rider with the best luck, to each of them, and using Gwyhyr's skills of language, they found the best way to be convincing. Once back, Cei became hot as flame, and singed the thicket from the earth, after which Ameathon tilled it with the oxen, and made it beautiful. 
They also enlisted the help of one of Arthur's other knights, Cors Hundred-Claws, to use his nimble fingers to locate the white flax seeds, and they were replanted in the soft black soil.

Next was the challenge of food and drink. Menw cast his invisibility spell and the knights snuck into the mystical hive with nine-times-sweeter honey. Gwyhyr spoke the language of bees, and enticed the drones and queen to the largest, most pollen-heavy flower they had ever heard of, and once gone, Culhwch took the honey and carried it back to the castle without them realising. 
Arthur lent them the use of his knight Sandde Angel-Face, whose face was so beautiful that all who saw it believed they they had been visited by an angel, and in this way he was able to take the cup of Llwyr, the hamper of Gwyddneu Longshank, and the horn of Gwlgawd Gwlgawd Gododdin in full graciousness, for the owners merely handed them over, as anyone would, should any angel ask them of anything.

Cei, peering over the clouds, saw that the harp of Teirtu was located on a distant island embraced by rolling seas as deep as mountains are high, with waves as rough and mighty as lions. Arthur gave them Osla Big-Knife, who, guided by Cynddylig, lay his knife across the land, where it transformed into an enormous bridge that let Bedwyr stride across it and claim it for the wedding. 
The swallows of Rhiannon were captured in the Echolands when Menw once again made them invisible, and they were able to capture the birds easily with their fingers, and transport them in a crystal cage that rang with their enchanting music.

Finally, Bedwyr and Cei strode into the Great Boar's lair, and removed the tusk for a razor. Gwyhyr spoke the language of longing and trust, to convince Cadw of Prydein to transport the tusk to the marriage, and he did. 
The Black Witch was found buried deep in her Valley of Grief, where she already bled harmlessly, for she had stubbed her toe on a rock. Menw, invisible, crouched below her small foot and waited as the drops fell into his invisible chalice. Soon he had enough to groom the giant Ysbaddaden's unruly beard.

As the prophecy foresaw, on Culhwch presenting the razor and the chalice of blood, the giant Ysbaddaden roared and demanded that he shave him. 
Culhwch began. But Ysbaddaden soon turned to bite the young man. This time Culhwch was prepared, and shaved his skin down to the bone. The knights poured in and carried him off. Cei struck a wound that would never heal, and the prophecy was made.

This is how Culhwch came to marry Olwen. 
Gwalchmei once again maintained his reputation for being the only knight in Arthur's kingdom to never lose a quest. 
And the knights of King Arthur saw love return to the land.

Cody Cat built a time machine! 
It's taken him all the way back to the age of the DINOSAURS! 
This is so exciting! 
But why does Cody look so sad? 
What's wrong, Cody Cat?