I was ten years old. My grandmother sat on the string bed, under
the mango tree. It was late summer and there were sunflowers in the garden and a
warm wind in the trees. My grandmother was knitting a woollen scarf for the winter
months. She was very old, dressed in a plain white sari; her eyes were not very strong
now, but her fingers moved quickly
with the needles, and the needles kept
clicking all afternoon. Grandmother
had white hair, but there were very few
wrinkles on her skin.
I had come home after playing
cricket on the maidan. I had taken my
meal, and now I was rummaging in a
box of old books and family heirlooms
that had just been brought out of the
attic by my mother. Nothing in the box
interested me very much, except for a book with colourful pictures of birds and
butterflies. I was going through the book, looking at the pictures, when I found a
small photograph between the pages. It was a faded picture, a little yellow and foggy;
it was a picture of a girl standing against a wall, and behind the wall there was nothing
but sky; but from the other side a pair of hands reached up, as though someone was
going to climb the wall. There were flowers growing near the girl, but I couldn’t tell
what they were; there was a creeper too, but it was just a creeper.
I ran out into the garden ‘Granny’ I shouted. ‘Look at this picture I found it in
the box of old things. Whose picture is it ?’
I jumped on the bed beside my grandmother, and she walloped me on the bottom
and said, ‘Now I’ve lost count of my stitches, and the next time you do that I’ll make
you finish the scarf yourself.’
Granny was always threatening to teach me how to knit, which I thought was a
disgraceful thing for a boy to do; it was a good deterrent for keeping me out of
mischief. Once I had torn the drawing room curtains, and Granny had put a needle
and thread in my hand and made me stitch the curtain together, even though I made
long, two-inch stitches, which had to be taken out by my mother and done again.
She took the photograph from my hand, and we both stared at it for quite a long
time. The girl had long, loose hair, and she wore a long dress that nearly covered her
ankles, and sleeves that reached her wrists, and there were a lot of bangles on her
hands; but, despite all this drapery, the girl appeared to be full of freedom and
movement; she stood with her legs apart and her hands on her hips, and she had a
wide, almost devilish smile on her face.
‘Whose picture is it ?’ I asked.
22. The Photograph
-138-
The Photograph
‘A little girl’s, of course,’
said Grandmother. ‘Can’t you
tell?’
‘Yes, but did you know the
girl?’
‘Yes, I knew her,’ said
granny, ‘but she was a very
wicked girl and I shouldn’t tell
you about her. But I’ll tell you
about the photograph. It was
taken in your grandfather’s
house, about sixty years ago and
that’s the garden wall, and on the
other side of the wall there was
a road going to town.’
‘Whose hands are they,’ I asked, ‘coming up from the other side?’
Grandmother squinted and looked closely at the picture, and shook her head.
‘It’s the first time I’ve noticed,’ she said. ‘That must have been the sweeper boy’s.
Or may be they were your grandfather’s.’
‘They don’t look like grandfather’s hands,’ I said. ‘His hands are all bony.’
‘Yes, but this was sixty years ago.’
‘Didn’t he climb up the wall, after the photo?’
‘No, nobody climbed up. At least, I don’t remember.’
‘And you remember well,
Granny.’
‘Come on, Granny,’ I said, ‘tell
me, tell me.’
But Grandmother shook her
head and carried on with the knitting;
I held the photograph in my hand
looking from it to my grandmother
and back again, trying to find points
in common between the old lady and
the little pig-tailed girl. A lemoncoloured butterfly settled on the end
of Grandmother’s knitting needle, and
stayed there while the needles clicked away. I made a grab at the butterfly, and it flew
off in a dipping flight and settled on a sunflower.
‘I wonder whose hands they were,’ whispered Grandmother to herself, with her
head bowed, and her needles clicking away in the soft warm silence of that summer
afternoon.