One day, when I was going towards my boat, I was
surprised to see the footprint of a man on the sand. I
stood amazed! I listened; I looked around me; I could
neither hear nor see anything. I went up higher to look
down; I went up the shore and down the shore, but it was
no good; I could find no other footprint but that one. I
went to it again to see if there were any more footprints
and to tell if it had been my imagination. But I was not
mistaken, for there was exactly the print of a foot — toes,
heel, every part of a foot. I could not imagine
how it came there.
I stayed a long time thinking, but
became more and more confused.
Read and enjoy the poem At last I returned home very frightened, looking behind
me after every two or three steps, mistaking every bush
and tree to be a man.
When I came to my cave (which I called my castle), I
ran inside it, as if I was being chased. I do not remember
whether I used the ladder or went in by the hole in the
rock, which I called the door. I ran for cover, faster than
any animal could run.
I did not sleep that night. The more I thought about
what I had seen, the more afraid I became. I thought it
could be one of the savages of the mainland who had
wandered out to the sea, in a small boat.
Luckily I was not on shore at that time, but what if he
had seen my boat! If he had seen the boat he would have
realised that someone lived on the island and would soon
return with others to kill and eat me.
And so I lay fearful for many days and prayed for
protection. In doing so, I was much comforted and began
going out to investigate. But even now as I went forward, I
looked behind me frequently, because I was still
very frightened.
However, as I went about for two or three days and
saw nothing I became a little bolder. I decided to go down
to the shore again and examine the footprint once more. I
decided to measure it with my own footmark.
As I came closer to the footprint, I realised that it could
not be my footprint because I had not come to this part of
the beach since a long time. Secondly, as I placed my foot
alongside that footprint, it seemed larger than my own.
My fear returned! I went home again, believing that
there was someone there.
The island was inhabited!