‘Knock! Knock! Knock!’ Someone was
knocking on the door of the inn. It was already
getting dark outside.
“Who’s there ?” the innkeeper called from
within.
“I am a poor, tired merchant. I want to spend
the night at the inn,” said the man outside. 

The innkeeper was not pleased to hear that the man was poor. But
all the same, he opened the door and brought him inside. The merchant
wore simple garments and carried only a simple cloth bag on his back.
“I have spent a long, tiring day at the market. I don’t have the
energy to walk back to my village. Please prepare a simple dinner for
me,” requested the merchant.
The innkeeper just nodded and went back to the kitchen.

“Ugh ! What’s the point in serving
such beggarly customers ! He calls himself
a merchant, but look at his clothes!
Look at his bag! His shoes are all worn
out. He has to carry his merchandise
himself. Cannot afford a servant! Cannot
afford even a good meal !” He began to
complain to his wife.
“You are right!” said his wife. She was
as greedy and unkind as her husband.
“We cook a meal for him, give him
a place to sleep, and what is he going
to pay in return ? Just a couple of coins
maybe ! Why did you take him in ? Drive
him out.” 

“No, no!” said the innkeeper.
“That is not good for our reputation.
But I have an idea - a very clever
idea ! I have this magic herb. I
bought it long ago. Whoever eats
this herb forgets something. We
will cook a good meal for this
fellow and add the magic herb to
it. Then he is sure to forget some of
his merchandise here tomorrow.”
“How clever you are !” exclaimed the wife.
“Yes, what else can he forget ? He has just
his merchandise with him. Maybe he will
forget all of it and leave it behind here. It will
surely be ours tomorrow!”
So that’s what the greedy couple did. They
cooked a tasty meal for their customer and
added the magic herb to it. The poor merchant
did not suspect anything. He thanked the
innkeeper for the good meal and went to bed.
The next morning, as soon as the innkeeper and his wife woke up,
they went to the merchant’s room! But alas! The merchant was not there.
The room was empty.

“What’s this ? There’s no one here. And where’s the bag
of merchandise ? That, too, is gone!”
“Let’s check. The magic of the herb is quite strong. He must
have forgotten something. He must have left something behind!”
The innkeeper searched in every nook and corner of the room
but he couldn’t find anything. “How come he forgot nothing?
I can’t believe it!” said he.
Suddenly the wife slapped herself on the forehead.
“We were so foolish! He has certainly forgotten something !
HE HAS FORGOTTEN TO PAY US !”

The innkeeper never used the magic
herb again!
