A big bright tear splashed down her nose. And another.
A kingfisher swept down, its wings an arrow of blue in the
sunlight. And a green lizard slithered down to the river’s edge
to bask in the sun.
“Dear, dear!” said a sleepy, murmuring voice, “What’s the
matter?”
Jahnavi was startled, because she was sure she had been quite
alone. It couldn’t have been the lizard. And the kingfisher was
up in the thicket of bamboo eating the fish it had caught. It
couldn’t be the parrots, because parrots shrieked and this was
such a sleepy voice. She looked around her. There wasn’t a
soul in sight. She was rather scared and wanted to run away.
“You shouldn’t cry, you know,” the voice went on. “And you
really shouldn’t be scared, when you have been coming here
to see me every day, well, almost every day.”She was puzzled. It was such a voice, like
the river. It couldn’t be the river!
“Well, tell me all about it,” said the River,
for it was the River. “I’ve got to hurry to reach
the sea, you know.”
“They won’t let me go to school,” said Jahnavi.
“I asked my mother, ‘Why can’t I go to school
like Ettan and Meena?’ And Mother had
replied, ‘You are too small, baby. Maybe
later.’ ” But when she was five, little
Ramu was born and Mother still said,
“Maybe next year. Jahnavi, mind your
little brother while I go to the fields.”
Now, she was nearly ten and minding
Little Appu, who was the smallest. “They
don’t want me. They only...”—she stopped with a sob...
“I am scared to go to school. And I’m so old now, they’ll never
let me go. But I want to go. I want to learn to read like Ettan
and Meena.” Jahnavi called her brother ‘Ettan’. Ettan means
‘Elder brother’, but his real name was Gopi. “I want to know
why spiders are yellow in yellow flowers, why bamboo
trees rustle, why the moon always comes from
behind the hills, never the other way, why
the baby fish in the field water become
frogs, why...”
“Stop!” said the River. “You make me
breathless. So many whys! I can tell
you where the moon goes,” the River
said conspiratorially. “It goes down
towards the sea. I’ve seen; it always
takes the same way—over the
mountains and down to the sea,
like me!”“Even little Ramu goes to school,” said Jahnavi, “pity, the school
isn’t by the sea,” said the River. “Then I could take you along,
you know. But, I suppose I couldn’t really. You’d get your feet
wet. And that would never do! I’m afraid there’s only one thing
you can do.”
“Can I do something?” asked Jahnavi. “Well, it’s up to you,”
said the River. “Seems to me little girls can do as much as little
boys—they swim as fast as little boys. You just slip along one
morning and sit there in the school and listen to what’s going
on, and maybe the teacher will let you stay.”
“I couldn’t,” gasped Jahnavi. “I couldn’t! They’d scare me!
They’d chase me out.”
The River laughed. “You? Scared?” the River said, “when you’re
not afraid of the green lizard, or of the snake in the bamboo
clump, (Jahnavi startled) or the big trains rattling past that
bridge.” “Trains are noisy; I prefer ships,” said the River.
Jahnavi never knew the snake lived in the bamboo clump.
“What are ships?” she asked.
“Big boats,” said the River, “so big that they can take hundreds
of people, and they sail along the sea with lights that shine all
night.”
Jahnavi held her breath. “Will they come here?” she asked.
“I’m afraid not,” said the River. “Too large, you know. Chandu’s
catamaran is good enough for me. Chandu can take you to see
a ship, someday.”
“They’d never let me!” wailed Jahnavi.
“Try going to school first,” said the River. “Remember—it’s up
to you!”Jahnavi gathered courage. The next day she reached the school,
panting and out of breath and stood by the door listening while
the teacher read out the lesson. It was a story about a prince
called Asˊhoka, who became a great king. Little Appu had fallen
asleep on her shoulder. She crept nearer and nearer till she was
in the back row, squatting with the others on the earthen floor.
Little Appu made no noise and she listened.
“Where did you spring from, little girl?” asked the teacher. “And
what is your name? You’re new in my class.”
“She’s Gopi’s sister, Gopi is in the next class,” said one of the boys.
“It’s Jahnavi,” said another. “So, you’re Gopi’s little sister? Nice
lad, Gopi.”
“If you really, really want to come to my school, Jahnavi,” the
teacher had said, “we’ll talk to your father about it. Don’t you
worry. We’ll find a way.”Jahnavi saw the teacher walking up the steps to their gate the
next evening when she was lighting the lamp. She could see her
father scratching his cheek the way he did when he was worried
and the teacher was nodding and saying something she couldn’t
make out. And Mother said, “Little Jahnavi, I shall miss you when
you go to school. Girls should learn as much as they want. When I
was your age, I wanted to go to school, but your grandmother said
‘No’, but now, I am glad the teacher came to talk to your father.”

Poorvi
Let us discuss
Complete the table given below with Jahnavi’s questions in Column 1 and
the River’s answers in Column 2. Check your answers with the teacher.
Column 1 Column 2
...why the moon always comes
from behind the hills…?
… little girls can do as much as
little boys.
Big boats, so big that they can take
hundreds of people, and they sail
along the sea with lights that shine
all night.
Will they come here?
6
And Jahnavi said, “Mother, when I grow up, I’ll be
a teacher and I’ll go from house to house in our
village and ask all the little girls to come to my
school. And I’ll teach them all that I’m going to
learn.”
And she went down the path between the fields
the next morning before school began, to meet
the River. “I did it!” she told the River. “I was
scared, but I did it! And they’re letting me go. I’m
going to learn to write my name and do sums and
find out why our little fishes in the rice fields turn
into frogs.” She heard the river’s sleepy chuckle,
“Come again, little girl, and I’ll tell you all about
the ships that sail the sea.”