It was almost noon, and the jungle was very still, very silent.
Heat waves shimmered along the railway embankment where
it cut a path through the tall evergreen trees. The railway lines
were two straight black serpents disappearing into the tunnel
in the hillside.
Suraj stood near the cutting, waiting for the midday train. It
wasn’t a station, and he wasn’t catching a train. He was waiting
so that he could watch the steam engine come roaring out of
the tunnel.
He had cycled out of the town and taken the jungle path until
he had come to a small village. He had left the cycle there, and
walked over a low scrub-covered hill and down to the tunnel
exit.
Now he looked up. He had heard, in the distance, the shrill
whistle of the engine. He couldn’t see anything, because
the train was approaching from the other side of the hill;but presently a sound like distant thunder issued from the
tunnel, and he knew the train was coming through.
A second or two later, the steam engine shot out of the tunnel,
snorting and puffing like some green, black, and gold dragon,
some beautiful monster out of Suraj’s dreams. Showering
sparks left and right, it roared a challenge to the jungle.
Instinctively, Suraj stepped back a few paces. Waves of hot
steam struck him in the face. Even the trees seemed to flinch
from the noise and heat. And then the train had gone, leaving
only a plume of smoke to drift lazily over the tall shisham
trees.
The jungle was still again. No one moved.
Suraj turned from his contemplation of the drifting smoke and
began walking along the embankment towards the tunnel.
The tunnel grew darker as he walked further into it. When
he had gone about twenty yards, it became pitch dark. Suraj
had to turn and look back at the opening to reassure himself
that there was still daylight outside. Ahead of him, the tunnel’s
other opening was just a small round circle of light.
The tunnel was still full of smoke from the train, but it would
be several hours before another train came through. Till then,
the cutting belonged to the jungle again.Suraj didn’t stop, because there was nothing to do in the tunnel
and nothing to see. He had simply wanted to walk through, so
that he would know what the inside of a tunnel was really
like. The walls were damp and sticky. A bat flew past. A lizard
scuttled between the lines.
Coming straight from the darkness into the light, Suraj was
dazzled by the sudden glare and put a hand up to shade his
eyes. He looked up at the tree-covered hillside and thought he
saw something moving between the trees.It was just a flash of orange and gold,
and a long swishing tail. It was there
between the trees for a second or
two, and then it was gone.
About fifteen metres from the
entrance to the tunnel stood the
watchman’s hut. Marigolds grew in
front of the hut, and at the back there
was a small vegetable patch. It was
the watchman’s duty to inspect the
tunnel and keep it clear of obstacles.
Every day, before the train came
through, he would walk the length of
the tunnel. If all was well, he would
return to his hut and take a nap. If something was wrong,
he would walk back up the line and wave a red flag, and the
engine driver would slow down. At night, the watchman lit
an oil lamp and made a similar inspection of the tunnel. Of
course, he would not stop the train if there was a porcupine
on the line. But if there was any danger to the train, he’d go
back up the line and wave his lamp to the approaching engine.
If all was well, he’d hang his lamp at the door of his hut and
go to sleep.
He was just settling down on his cot for an afternoon nap
when he saw the boy emerge from the tunnel. He waited until
Suraj was only a metre or so away and then said, “Welcome,
welcome. I don’t often have visitors. Sit down for a while, and
tell me why you were inspecting my tunnel.”
“Is it your tunnel?” asked Suraj“It is,” said the watchman. “It is truly my tunnel, since no one
else will have anything to do with it. I have only lent it to the
Government.”
Suraj sat down on the edge of the cot.
“I wanted to see the train come through,” he said. “And then,
when it had gone, I thought I’d walk through the tunnel.”
“And what did you find in it?”
“Nothing. It was very dark. But when I came out, I thought I
saw an animal—up on the hill—but I’m not sure, it moved off
very quickly.”
“It was a leopard you saw,” said the watchman. “My leopard.”
“Do you own a leopard too?”
“I do.”
“And do you lend it to the Government?”
“I do not.”
“Is it dangerous?”
“No, it’s a leopard that minds its own business. It comes to this
range for a few days every month.”
“Have you been here a long time?” asked Suraj.
“Many years. My name is Sunder Singh.”
“My name’s Suraj.”
“There is one train during the day. And there is one trainduring the night. Have you seen the night mail come through
the tunnel?”
“No. At what time does it come?”
“About nine o’clock, if it isn’t late. You could come and sit here
with me, if you like. And after it has gone, instead of going to
sleep I will take you home.”
“I’ll ask my parents,” said Suraj. “Will it be safe?”
“Of course. It is safer in the jungle than in the town. Nothing
happens to me out here. But last month, when I went into
town, I was almost run over by a bus.”
Sunder Singh yawned and stretched himself out on the cot.
“And now I am going to take a nap, my friend. It is too hot to
be up and about in the afternoon.”
“Everyone goes to sleep in the afternoon,” complained Suraj.
“My father lies down as soon as he’s had his lunch.”
“Well, the animals also rest in the heat of the day. It is only the
tribe of boys who cannot, or will not, rest.”
Sunder Singh placed a large banana leaf over his face to
keep away the flies, and was soon snoring gently. Suraj stood
up, looking up and down the railway tracks. Then he began
walking back to the village.