Once upon a time, not so very long ago, there was a small
boy called Hari. Although he
wasn’t very big, he was
strong, and he loved to
tease all the boys and girls
who went to school with
him. What he loved to do
most was to pinch. He could
make a big bruise appear in
half a second. Another trick
he played was pricking
people with a pin.
So you can guess how all
the children hated him. They
tried pinching him back, but
that was no good because he could
always pinch harder. They didn't like telling their
teacher, because that was telling tales.
It so happened that the class went for a picnic to
the seaside for a whole day. All the children were
most excited.On that day, the sun shone bright, and all the
children were wild with excitement. They crowded into
the train and sat down — but nobody wanted to sit next
to Hari because he always pinched.
When they arrived at the seaside, out jumped all the
children with a shout of joy. Down to the sands they
raced, hand in hand — but nobody took Hari’s hand.
Nobody went near him.
Hari was angry. He went to a sandy corner near a
rocky pool and sat down by himself. He took out his
lunch and looked at it. It was a good lunch. There were
two hard-boiled eggs, six jam sandwiches, three pieces of
bread and butter, a ginger cake, and a bar of chocolate.
He would eat it all by himself. He wouldn't offer anything
to anyone!
Just as he was beginning on the eggs, he heard a
hoarse voice near him. “Good morning! I am so pleased to
meet a boy like you.” Hari turned around and stared in
fright. Whatever do you think he saw?
Hari saw a monster crab walking sideways out of the
pool. His eyes were on the ends of short stalks and he
looked most queer. He held out his
front claw to Hari. Hari put out
his hand to shake the crab’s
claw, but to his surprise
and anger the crab
opened his pincers
and nipped his
hand so hard that
the little boy yelled.
“Ah, here is my good cousin,” said the crab pleasantly,
and, to Hari’s horror, he saw a large sandy lobster
crawling heavily out of the pool. Before the little boy
could stop him the lobster took his hand in his great
pincer-like claws and pinched it so hard that Hari yelled
in pain.Then he stared at the pool in surprise, for, out came
sandy-coloured shrimps and prawns, more crabs, and
another large lobster and they pricked Hari till he was
soon black and blue with their pinching.
“Don’t you like it?” said all the creatures in surprise.
“Why, we were told you would love to see us because you
were a champion pincher and pricker yourself. Come,
come join in the fun!”
Hari leapt to his feet, crying loudly. His lunch rolled
into the pool, and when the crabs and lobsters saw it
they ran to it and began to feast eagerly. Hari saw that
they had forgotten him for a time, and he turned and ran
for his life, tears streaming down his cheeks.
“They only did to me what I keep doing to the
other children,” he thought. “But how it hurt! And how I
hated those crabs and lobsters! I suppose the other
children hate me too. Well, I jolly well shan’t pinch or
prick any more.”
