This night in Forestville was colder than ever before. The trees were frozen and icy. Snow was draped on the branches. 
From beneath the soil, there was a rumbling movement. Something was awakening from the previous year. 
His bones lay scattered in the dirt, until each of his body parts lifted itself up to create a skeleton person.

This skeleton was called Bones. 
He screwed his skull onto his shoulders. He looked around, getting accustomed to life around him. 
Something felt wrong. This was not fall. There were no orange, yellow or brown leaves upon the ground; no pumpkins laid on the path. The trees were bare with snow impacted on the ground. 
This was winter! Something had gone horribly wrong. One skeleton had awakened too late from his yearlong slumber, six feet under!

He jiggled his entire body, rattling his ribs, turning his skull to gaze around him. Nowhere around felt spooky, but... cheerful? Christmas had come to the graveyard, and this skeleton suddenly felt completely out of his depth. 
He suddenly realised that if he wanted to fit in with this new environment, he would have no choice but to blend in with the Christmas folk around here, embracing a different side to him.

The human beings that lived in Forestville were normally seen decorating their homes and shop windows in cobwebs, placing pumpkins with autumn-flavoured decor on their porches, and wandering the streets with buckets, dressed as witches with pointy hats or mummies wrapped in bandages. With all this gone, the skeleton was puzzled. 
Orange decorations had been replaced with twinkling lights, Santas and elves, reindeer and Christmas pine trees coated in tinsel. Santas roamed the streets in large winter boots marching through the snow. The shop windows glowed a warm colour, rather than the harsh lighting of green at Halloween. 
Children and parents were seen hurrying down pavements wrapped up warmly in bobble hats, scarfs, and woollen coats. Music of joy hummed through the lit-up skies. 
Bones thought that he would try his best to fit in. But he suspected that everything he did would always end up coming out dark and scary, spooky and odd, instead of being joyful, colourful, and hopeful, as it seemed to be here!

Bones now realised that snow filled the streets! It was a sight that he wasn't used to. He knew about it, of course, but had never seen it in real life. Children were lying in the snow, making shapes with their bodies, leaving the impression of angels. 
Bones rushed to the nearest pile of snow, which was deep enough to fall into. With one giant leap into the air, he landed right in the middle of the mound. It was freezing! 
He jumped up and looked at the shape left behind... 
To his disappointment, there was no angel where he had lain down. Instead there was the strange outline of what looked like a spider. Forever stuck in the Halloween spirit! Bones needed to change this pattern soon!

He gazed at all the Christmas magic. One town, which he usually saw to be full of pumpkin pies and scary things, was now twinkly and cutesy. Bones could feel his eyes widen with the dazzling lights. 
Meanwhile, over in the very corner of the park, humans were helping each other to decorate their Christmas tree, hanging lights and decorations. Bones knew that if he had any chance of fitting in, this would be his ultimate accomplishment.

This little town was always accustomed to seeing strange things. They were welcoming people, and always let everyone join in. But as Bones marched over towards where the half-decorated tree was, he had a worrying thought that he wouldn't be accepted at Christmas. Luckily Bones didn't have a stomach to feel like jelly, rumbling around, but his pelvis was a little hollow.

Yet when he got nearer, the group of humans seemed more confused than angry. 
Then he saw that they were only sad to see a skeleton who missed out on Halloween! 
"Not to worry," one of the humans said softly, patting him gently on the collar bone. "I hope we can make Christmas just as enjoyable for you... here, you can place this." 
She smiled, handing him the most glowing star he had ever seen. Bones looked at it, frowning. 
"What do I do with it?"

She nodded, and pointed to the very top of the tree swaying in the sky. Bones couldn't even see exactly how tall it stood, but knew that if he was to get into the Christmas spirit, he would have to face his fears.

He stood on top of her shoulders, just like a step going upwards. His skeletal toes dug into her back, but she didn't seem bothered, and gave Bones a smile. 
As Bones began to climb the branches, he worried that he might fall, crashing in a heap of bones on the ground, but the next time he looked down at the humans below, they were like speckles of dust, or tiny ants. It was then that Bones knew he was very high off the ground.

He stood on top of her shoulders, just like a step going upwards. His skeletal toes dug into her back, but she didn't seem bothered, and gave Bones a smile. 
As Bones began to climb the branches, he worried that he might fall, crashing in a heap of bones on the ground, but the next time he looked down at the humans below, they were like speckles of dust, or tiny ants. It was then that Bones knew he was very high off the ground.

With the golden star held tightly to his rib cage, Bones managed to reach up, his long spindly arms stretching right up to the tip of the tree. He had finally achieved what he dreamed of doing!

Suddenly however, he felt his bony toes losing balance, and unable to cling on. 
"Catch me!" Bones yelled, as he came tumbling down from the branches. 
The crowd cried out with concern, their hands ready to catch. Just like that, rows of warm human hands caught his bony body. For a moment, Bones had felt as though he were soaring, crowd surfing above their heads. He had felt energetic and free, the cold breeze making his bones tingle. 
But now he was safe. With one swift movement, the group of humans gently placed him upright upon the ground, with two feet firmly placed in the snow. Bones breathed a sigh of relief, still feeling the wind whistling through the middle of his body. 
"Thank you everyone!" Bones beamed. 
"We're just glad you're back on the ground in one piece," the group leader answered, hand on his shoulder. "Christmas is all about helping a neighbour in need!"

Bones was now excited to try more Christmas traditions. He felt the magic of the season. Red and white striped candy canes almost tasted like Halloween candy corn. But instead of trick-or-treating to get sweets from the doors of strangers, as people did at Halloween, children received candy from the big man himself, Santa Claus! 
Bones wanted to speak with Santa Claus. He waited behind a long line of excited children. The more and more the queue moved up, the happier he felt. He felt joy, but not the same kind of joy he felt at Halloween every year. It was a different sort of happiness he had never felt before.

Bones' time had come. Staring face to face with the man himself, he wobbled forward on knobbly knees, his bony arms outstretched. 
"Hello!" Bones cried cheerfully. "I'm Bones!" 
"Nice to meet you Bones! What is it that you would like for Christmas?" the joyful fellow chuckled, shaking Bones' skeletal hand. 
"I wish that the holidays could speak to each other, sharing our different traditions." 
Santa frowned, thinking, but eventually he smiled. 
"That's a big ask Bones, but if everyone really believes this will work, your dreams may come true." 
Bones grinned.

As he walked away, Bones thought to himself, "Another thing crossed off the list! I need to experience everything Christmas has to offer!" 
Sledging down snowy hills, baking freshly baked cookies with white gooey icing instead of eating the leftover toffees at the bottom of a Halloween bucket, and singing carols with a large group of humans at the top of their voices, whether or not they could sing, was nicer than children shouting from terror as they were scared by trick-or-treaters.

Suddenly Bones had an urge to wake the other dead, so they could experience all this magic for themselves. Why shouldn't holidays interweave? With his lanky bony legs, he dashed back to the cemetery covered in piles of snow. 
The oldest grave was a rickety old tomb made from stone. Above the doorway hung a rusty bell to awaken the dead. Bones had obviously missed the ring this October. 
"DING, Ding, Ding!" The metal bell swung back and forth when Bones touched it gently.

All at once, the ground shook. The snow that rested on the gravestones slid across the frosty earth. Hands, feet, and heads popped up to the snowy scenery, frozen after being wrapped up nice and warm underground. Most of them looked very confused, staring at the ice that surrounded them. 
"It's not October already?" one groaned, getting to her feet. 
"No, we've just had it! There must be something wrong!" 
"It's so cold!" they all said, their teeth chattering and arms rattling on their bodies. 
"Follow me into town!" Bones yelled, his voice ringing clear all around the cemetery so that all the dead could hear. "Trust me."

His friends started to march together in one large crowd, as they usually would on Halloween night. The dead were spellbound as they wandered the magical streets full of light and fun. Sweets and sparkles were on every corner, and smiles beamed from every human. They couldn't believe their eyes. 
"Everything looks so different from when we were here in October... there are so many lights!" they said excitedly. 
"Dance, shop, eat or make snow angels!" Bones cried out with joy. "Just make sure you all celebrate together!"

The dead all dashed off as fast as they could. Some jingled the bells that rang upon the sleighs, some sat upon Santa's lap, others made pies and festive foods, while more happily played with snowballs, cheerfully throwing them at one another.

It really felt as though both Christmas and Halloween were coming together in one big celebration. Bones found himself wishing that the creatures who came out at other times of the year could join in with them. Jack Frost, the Easter Bunny and little Guy Fawkes would love this! 
Then Bones thought, when Christmas is over, Santa, his elves and reindeer could even wake a little earlier for the other celebrations, too. Would it be so bad that all the creatures came together every time a holiday happened in the town square? 
This night was the first time that started the special tradition in Forestville, and it was all started by one lonely skeleton named Bones, who woke up late one year!