“Why do you do this?” I ask Saheb whom I encounter every morning
scrounging for gold in the garbage dumps of my neighbourhood.
Saheb left his home long ago. Set amidst the green fields of Dhaka,
his home is not even a distant memory. There were many storms
that swept away their fields and homes, his mother tells him. That’s
why they left, looking for gold in the big city where he now lives.
“I have nothing else to do,” he mutters, looking away.
“Go to school,” I say glibly, realising immediately how hollow
the advice must sound.
“There is no school in my neighbourhood. When they build
one, I will go.”
“If I start a school, will you come?” I ask, half-joking“Yes,” he says, smiling broadly.
A few days later I see him running up to me. “Is your school
ready?”
“It takes longer to build a school,” I say, embarrassed at having
made a promise that was not meant. But promises like mine abound
in every corner of his bleak world.
After months of knowing him, I ask him his name. “Saheb-eAlam,” he announces. He does not know what it means. If he knew
its meaning — lord of the universe — he would have a hard time
believing it. Unaware of what his name represents, he roams the
streets with his friends, an army of barefoot boys who appear like
the morning birds and disappear at noon. Over the months, I have
come to recognise each of them.
“Why aren’t you wearing chappals?” I ask one.
“My mother did not bring them down from the shelf,” he answers
simply.
“Even if she did he will throw them off,” adds another who is
wearing shoes that do not match. When I comment on it, he shuffles
his feet and says nothing. “I want shoes,” says a third boy who has
never owned a pair all his life. Travelling across the country I have
seen children walking barefoot, in cities, on village roads. It is not lack
of money but a tradition to stay barefoot, is one explanation. I wonder
if this is only an excuse to explain away a perpetual state of poverty.
I remember a story a man from Udipi once told me. As a young
boy he would go to school past an old temple, where his father was
a priest. He would stop briefly at the temple and pray for a pair of
shoes. Thirty years later I visited his town and the temple, which
was now drowned in an air of desolation. In the backyard, where
lived the new priest, there were red and white plastic chairs. A young boy dressed in a grey uniform, wearing socks and shoes, arrived
panting and threw his school bag on a folding bed. Looking at the
boy, I remembered the prayer another boy had made to the goddess
when he had finally got a pair of shoes, “Let me never lose them.”
The goddess had granted his prayer. Young boys like the son of the
priest now wore shoes. But many others like the ragpickers in my
neighbourhood remain shoeless.
My acquaintance with the barefoot ragpickers leads me to
Seemapuri, a place on the periphery of Delhi yet miles away from it,
metaphorically. Those who live here are squatters who came from
Bangladesh back in 1971. Saheb’s family is among them. Seemapuri
was then a wilderness. It still is, but it is no longer empty. In
structures of mud, with roofs of tin and tarpaulin, devoid of sewage,
drainage or running water, live 10,000 ragpickers. They have lived
here for more than thirty years without an identity, without permits
but with ration cards that get their names on voters’ lists and enable
them to buy grain. Food is more important for survival than an
identity. “If at the end of the day we can feed our families and go to
bed without an aching stomach, we would rather live here than in
the fields that gave us no grain,” say a group of women in tattered
saris when I ask them why they left their beautiful land of green
fields and rivers. Wherever they find food, they pitch their tents that
become transit homes. Children grow up in them, becoming partners
in survival. And survival in Seemapuri means rag-picking. Through
the years, it has acquired the proportions of a fine art. Garbage to
them is gold. It is their daily bread, a roof over their heads, even if
it is a leaking roof. But for a child it is even more.
“I sometimes find a rupee, even a ten-rupee note,” Saheb says,
his eyes lighting up. When you can find a silver coin in a heap of
garbage, you don’t stop scrounging, for there is hope of finding
more. It seems that for children, garbage has a meaning different
from what it means to their parents. For the children it is wrapped
in wonder, for the elders it is a means of survival.
One winter morning I see Saheb standing by the fenced gate
of the neighbourhood club, watching two young men dressed in
white, playing tennis. “I like the game,” he hums, content to watch
it standing behind the fence. “I go inside when no one is around,”
he admits. “The gatekeeper lets me use the swing.”
Saheb too is wearing tennis shoes that look strange over his
discoloured shirt and shorts. “Someone gave them to me,” he says
in the manner of an explanation. The fact that they are discarded hoes of some rich boy, who perhaps refused
to wear them because of a hole in one of
them, does not bother him. For one who has
walked barefoot, even shoes with a hole is
a dream come true. But the game he is
watching so intently is out of his reach.
This morning, Saheb is on his way to
the milk booth. In his hand is a steel
canister. “I now work in a tea
stall down the road,” he says,
pointing in the distance. “I am
paid 800 rupees and all my
meals.” Does he like the job? I
ask. His face, I see, has lost the
carefree look. The steel canister
seems heavier than the plastic
bag he would carry so lightly over
his shoulder. The bag was his.
The canister belongs to the man
who owns the tea shop. Saheb is
no longer his own master!