Ravi! How are you?
Ravi : I am fine, Prakash! Let’s go and play outside; it’s
a sunny day.
Prakash : Yes, let’s go.
 (Ravi and Prakash went to the children’s park
near their house. A few children were playing
there. They waved at Ravi. Ravi waved back and
introduced Prakash as his cousin to all his friends.
After playing for a while, they started talking.)Guneet : Tomorrow is the Lagori match. We should include
Prakash in our team; he’s a good runner.
Deepa : Yes, he is quick.
Prakash : Will somebody please tell me what this Lagori
match is about?
 (Everybody looked at Prakash
with great surprise.)
Guneet : Don’t you know Lagori game?
Prakash : No, I don’t.
Nidhi : Wait, I will tell you. Lagori is
actually a game of seven stones.
Prakash : Seven stones game? How is it played?
 (Imran joins them)
Nidhi : Look! Imran is here. He is also a champion of this
game. He will explain.
Imran : In Lagori the seven flat stones are stacked one
above the other. After that, one team knocks down
the stones with a ball, and the other team tries to
rebuild the stack while avoiding the ball thrown
by the members of the first team or the opponent
team.
Prakash : Oh! Okay, you mean Satoliya.
Deepa : What is Satoliya now?
Prakash : In Rajasthan, we call this game SatoliyaGuneet : Wow! We learned another name of our favourite
game. So, in our Sundarpur village, we call it
Lagori, and in Rajasthan, it is called as Satoliya.Imran : Now we know that this game is played in Rajasthan
too!
Guneet : Do you know, Prakash, our Lagori team is called
by the name of Sundarpur Tigers and our friend
Deepa is our captain.
Ravi : No doubt! She runs fast!
Nidhi : Ravi, tell him about our opponent team.
Ravi : Yes, Prakash, we are playing this match with the
‘Green Warriors’ team from the nearby village.
Deepa : We have to tell Prakash about the game rules also.
Prakash : Yes, please do tell me.

76 Santoor Grade 4
Imran : The field is marked with a boundary. The players
are not supposed to go beyond the boundary.
Seven flat stones are stacked one over the other,
in the centre of the field.
Prakash : Yes, these are the same rules we have while playing
Satoliya.
Ravi : It seems we are all ready for the match.
(The next day, all children gathered for the match.
The referee blew the whistle and Deepa took the
first shot. She threw the ball straight at the stack,
and the stones scattered. Everyone cheered. The
Sundarpur Tigers began to rebuild the stack of
stones. The Green Warriors took the ball and
aimed to hit the Sundarpur Tigers. Ravi stacked 
two stones and ducked when the ball was about
to hit him. Deepa added a stone to the pile while
a Green Warrior threw the ball at Guneet and
Deepa.)Deepa, watch out! Here comes the ball.
Deepa : Thanks Imran! I dodged the ball just in time.
 (Nidhi came running. She placed the fourth and
fifth stones and ran away from the ball.
 Ravi came running with sweat dripping down his
face. He put the sixth stone in place. Only one
stone was left to be placed. The Green Warriors
tried one last time to hit Ravi with the ball. Before
that, Prakash came and set the seventh stone on
top. The final whistle blew.)
Referee : The Sundarpur Tigers have won!
 (The match was over. The players from both teams
shook hands and appreciated each other for a
good game. The villagers clapped and cheered the teams. The Refree lifted the hands of both the
captains and everyone celebrated with laughter
and joy. The Lagori match had brought the villagers
together, reminding everyone of the simple joys of
teamwork.)
Deepa : That was so much fun! Even better than our video
games!
Ravi : Indeed! We should play our traditional games
