Gulliver Meets the Lilliputians 

‘I tried to get up from the ground,
but I could not move ! I was lying on my
back. Then I found that my arms and
feet were held down to the ground with
strings. My hair, which was long, was
held down in the same way. Thousands
of strings had been passed across my
body, so that I could not move any part
of me, but could only lie there on my
back looking up at the sky.
In a little time, I felt something alive
moving on my foot. Then it came over my body and up to my face. Turning my
eyes down as much as I could, I saw a
man. He was not half a foot high. By his
dress, he seemed to be a soldier. Then
there came forty more, following the
first.
I was so much surprised that I
gave a great cry. Then they all ran
back in great fear; and (as I was
told later) some of them were hurt
in jumping down from my side on
to the ground.’

Gulliver Attempts to Pull Free

‘After pulling very hard I got one
arm up from the ground. I also raised my
head; this gave me great pain for many
of the hairs were pulled out. I put out my
hand to catch some of the little men; but
they ran away before I could close my
hand on them. Then I heard a noise, and
felt a pricking in my hand like that of a
thousand needles. I found that they were
shooting arrows at me. I was afraid for
my eyes. I put my hand over my face.
After this, I thought that the wisest thing to do was to lie quiet till night. I thought
that then, my hand being free, I could
quickly set free the rest of my body.
Soon a platform was raised and
an important-looking man gave a long
speech. From his gestures, I guessed
that he was trying to tell me that
they would not harm me, if I did as
they told. I too, replied with gestures
that I would remain quiet. I also told
them that I was hungry.’
  

Gulliver Eats a Giant Meal

‘At once, a hundred men climbed
up on to my body and marched up to
my mouth, carrying food. The bread
was as small as bullets. So I ate two
or three loaves at a time and cries of
surprise rose from the Lilliputians that
I should eat so quickly and so much.
The Lilliputians were no longer afraid
of me. They danced upon my body and
ran to and fro. I could have caught at
least forty of them with my hands and
thrown them down. But I remembered my promise to remain quiet. Indeed,
I was surprised at their bravery for I
must have seemed the greatest giant in
the world.
Later, I was taken to the city where
the king lived. A great cart was made by
joining many carts. Nine hundred men
worked for three hours to put me on to
the cart which was drawn by fifteen
hundred of the king’s finest horses. The
city was just half a mile away but the
journey took almost a full day.’
 

Gulliver’s New Home

The king came out to meet me; he
came near and looked at me, but it was
not thought safe for him to climb up on
me.
At the place where the cart stopped
there was an old church. It was the
largest building in the whole country.
For certain reasons, it had not been used
as a church for many years. It had now
been made ready for me to use as my
house. The great door on the north was
four feet high and two feet wide. So, I could go into it by going down on my
hand. One of my feet was set in a great
ring on the end of many strong strings
so that I could not get away, but could
only walk some distance outside my
door. The country outside looked like a
garden.
After some days, the king and his
people were convinced that I would
not harm them. So, after I agreed to
keep certain ‘orders’ of the king, I was
allowed to move around.’

Gulliver Visits the City and the Queen

‘As soon as I was set free I asked
if I might see the city. The king was
pleased to let me do this. Orders were
given to all the people to remain in their
houses. I then stepped over the wall,
and went very carefully, along the two
largest streets. All the windows were
full of faces looking out at me, and
large numbers of people were standing on the tops of the houses. The king’s
house was just at the place where two
great streets met. There was a beautiful
garden on all sides of it. Lying down in
the garden I put my eye to the windows.
The rooms inside were very beautiful.
In one room, I saw the queen and some
of the young princes. They were greatly
pleased by my visit.’