Along the sea coast in Japan, earthquakes are sometimes followed by terrible tidal
waves called Tsunami. This wonderful story of sacrifice and alertness tells of such a
tidal wave that struck a small village in Japan.
Long ago, an old man whose name was Hamaguchi, lived in a village in Japan. His
farmhouse stood on the edge of a plateau, a flat open space high up on the side of a
mountain. Behind his house, the mountain stood still higher and full of dense forests. In
front, it sloped gently down to the sea. At the foot of the mountain, along the shore,
was the little village made up of about a hundred thatched houses. A little apart from
them, stood the temple.
One afternoon, Hamaguchi sat with his grandson on the balcony of his house, watching
the people of the village below enjoying the harvest festival. The rice crop had been
very good and the villagers were very happy. All
the shops and houses were gaily decorated with
paper lanterns. The villagers wearing bright
coloured clothes were about to start the harvest
dance.
From his balcony, Hamaguchi could see
the vast sea curling over waves in the
bright afternoon sun. Suddenly,
Hamaguchi felt a slight movement.
The house rocked three or four times
and then stood still. Hamaguchi had
seen many earthquakes in his life and
he was not frightened at all until he
looked towards the sea.
The sea had become a menacing dark
green and very rough. The tide had changed
Reading C
Hamaguchi
164
all of a sudden. Instead of the waves rolling on to the beach, the water was now running
away from the beach. The villagers stopped dancing and ran towards the seashore to
see more of the peculiar and strange sight! None of them knew what this strange thing
meant. But the old man on the mountainside had seen one such sight when he was a
little boy. He knew what the sea would do. There was no time to send a message to the
village, nor to ring the bell in the temple, and yet he knew that the people on the seashore
had to be warned.
“Yone,” he called his grandson, “Light a torch! Quick!”
The young boy was puzzled, but he asked no questions. He lit the torch at once. The
old man ran to the fields, where hundreds of rice sacks were stacked. He ran from one
sack to another, applying the torch to each. The dry sacks caught fire quickly. Soon the
flames were shooting upwards and the smoke was rising in great columns to join the
clouds in the sky.
Yone ran after his grandfather, shouting
and crying. “Grandfather! Why are
you setting fire to the rice?”
The old man had no time to answer.
He just kept putting one stack after
another on fire. The strong wind
carried the sparks farther and farther
till the whole field was ablaze.
The priest in the temple saw the fire
and started ringing the big bell. The
people turned from the sea to see why
the bell was ringing all of a sudden.
In Japan, it is the duty of everyone in
the village to help when there is a fire.
No sooner did the people see
Hamaguchi’s stacks of rice on fire, that
they ran towards his fields like an army
of ants. Young men and boys, women
and girls, old folks, mothers with babies
165
on their backs, even little children, they all climbed the mountain to join the race to put
out the fire.
But, by the time they reached the plateau, it was already too late. The flames had
destroyed the entire harvest and turned everything to ash.
“It is too bad!” the people exclaimed. “How did this happen?”
“Grandfather did it!” cried the young boy. “He lit each stack of rice. He has gone
mad!”The people turned and looked. Far out they saw a great wall of water sweeping towards
them with great force and speed. It was the returning sea! The people shrieked, but their
voices were lost in the great sound, louder than any thunder they had ever heard, as the
water struck the side of the mountain. The hills shook and they were drenched in a great
burst of foam.
When the cloud of spray had disappeared, the people saw a wild sea roaring over what
was once their village. Great angry waves tumbled above the housetops, rolling, roaring
and tearing off houses, trees, anything that came in its way. Great big rocks were torn
away like they were pebbles being tossed around. Again the wall of water struck, and
again but with less force each time. At last, it fell back in its former place.
The people stood speechless like statues on the side of the mountain. The village was
gone, the temple was no more and the fields had been torn away. Nothing was left of
their homes, but a few straw roofs that floated on the water. However, precious human
lives were saved on the mountainside by this timely act.
The people now realized why old Hamaguchi had set fire to the rice. There he stood
among them, as poor as any. Full of gratitude, all these people, fell on their knees to
thank him