There was great joy in Nina’s house. Nina’s aunt was
getting married. Nina, her father, mother and little brother
were all going to Delhi for a wedding. Everyone was happy,
except Nina.
Her mother took her to the market to buy a new dress.
“What colour would you like?” Mother asked.
“I don’t want a new dress, Mother,” said Nina. “Salwarkameez then?”
Nina shook her head.
“What about those lovely white shoes you saw last week?”
“I don’t want those, either. Thank you, Mother.”
Nina’s mother was
upset, but she said
nothing. They went
back home and had
lunch. After lunch
mother came and sat
near Nina. “What is it,
child?” she asked.
“Why did you say ‘no’
to everything?”“Mother, I don’t
want to go to the wedding .”
“But why?”
Nina said nothing
Instead, two big tears
rolled down her
cheeks. Mother put
her arms around
Nina. Don’t cry, my pet.” she said. “why don’t you tell me
what’s bothering you?”
More tears rolled down Nina’s cheeks. “Mother.” she said,
“there’s a sparrow’s nest on the bookshelf in my room. And
there are two baby sparrows in the nest.”
“I see .........”, said mother.
“They’re just beginning to get their feathers. And growing
up makes them so hungry. All day long they cry ‘cheep-cheep’,
asking for food.
“I see! said Mother.
“If we go, the whole place will be locked. And how will
papa and mama sparrows feed their babies?”
“Oh Nina“, cried Mother, giving her a big hug. “Is that why
you don’t want to go to the wedding? But that’s no problem
at all, we’ll leave the window open.”“Oh, can we, Mother? Can we? Really?”
“Yes, yes. we’ll remove all your things from the room and
lock the door on the outside. So the house will be perfectly
safe and papa and mama sparrow can come and go freely,
too. Just think, Nina ...... while you enjoy yourself at the
wedding, the baby sparrows will be getting nice and fat in
their nest. Good idea, isn’t it?”
It was a good idea. When Nina came back from the wedding, there were two plump little sparrows flying all over the
room, And wasn’t Nina thrilled!