There lived a naughty boy in a village. Each day the boy spent
hours playing
near the large,
old mango tree. He would
make a crown of its leaves
and then proudly declare, I
am the king of the forest 
The tree loved to have the
boy visit it and play in its
branches.
Time passed, the boy
grew to be a man, but to
the tree he would always be
a boy. Gradually he
stopped coming to the tree.
Then one day, to the tree's
great delight he saw the boy approaching. The boy said he needed money, for without
money he couldn't marry. Take my mangoes, they are the best variety, sell them and
you will have more than enough money offered the generous tree. The boy didn't
wait another minute.
For what did the boy not wait?
4. The Tree that Never Stopped Giving
-19-
English-8
The boy stripped the tree of every single mango, sold them and got married.
After a lapse of time,the boy came back again, sullen and complaining, I need a
house, can you give me a house?
Take my strong branches and build yourself a house and make your furniture
too, said the loving tree. So the boy hacked down all the branches leaving the tree
with just its trunk. Slowly the tree aged without its branches and leaves. It felt lonely
and sad. It missed the boy.
Years went by. The lonely old tree often thought of the boy and then one day the
boy came again not quite as young as before. I need a boat, he said to the tree, I
want to travel, to see something of the world.
Take my trunk, it's all I have left, but it will make you a sound boat, said the
tree.
The thoughtless boy took the trunk made his boat and sailed away without even
once thinking about the tree and what he had done to it.
Finally the boy became a tired old man, and now all he could think of was his
faithful friend, the tree, Come, boy, called the tree. Rest here on my stump, it
makes a good seat, we can be happy together. And the boy gratefully, for once sat
down in the warm sunshine on the tree stump. And the tree was happy