Rama Natha was the son of a rich landlord.
His father left him large tracts of land when he
died. But Rama Natha did not spend even one
day looking after his land. This was because
he had a funny idea—he believed there was
a magic potion that could turn any object
into gold. He spent all his time to learn more
about this potion. People cheated him often,
promising to tell him about it, but he did not
give up. His wife, Madhumati, was tired of this
and also worried because she saw how much
money Rama Natha was spending. She was
sure that soon they would be without money.
One day, a famous sage called Mahipati
came to their town. Rama Natha became his
follower and asked him about the potion. To his
surprise the sage answered, “Yes, in my travels
in the Himalayas, I heard how you could make
such a potion. But it is difficult.”
“Tell me!” requested Rama Natha, not
believing his luck.
“You have to plant a banana plant and
water it regularly with your hands. In winter,
the morning dew is on the leaves. You have to
collect the dew and store it in a bottle. When
you have five litres of dew, bring it to me. I will
chant some magic words, which will turn it
into the magic potion. A drop of the potion will
change any object into gold.”Rama Natha was worried. “But winter is only for a few months.
It will take me years to collect five litres of dew.”
“You can plant as many banana plants as you want. But
remember, you must look after them yourself and collect the
dew with your own hands.”Rama Natha went home, and after talking to
his wife started cleaning his large fields, which
had been lying empty all these years. There he
planted rows and rows of banana plants. He
tended them carefully and during the winter
months collected the dew that formed on
them with great care. His wife helped him too.
Madhumati gathered the banana crop, took it
to the market and got a good price for it. Over
the years, Rama Natha planted more and more
plants and they had a huge banana plantation.
At the end of six years, he finally had his five
litres of dew.Carefully, he took the bottle to the sage. The
sage smiled and muttered something over the
water. Then he returned the bottle and said,
“Try it out.” Rama Natha sprinkled a few drops
on a copper vessel and waited for it to turn to
gold. To his surprise nothing happened!
“This is cheating,” he told the sage. “I have
wasted six precious years of my life.”
But sage Mahipati only smiled and called
Madhumati to come forward. She came with
a big box. When she opened it, inside shined
stacks of gold coins!
Now the sage turned to the very surprised
Rama Natha and said, “There is no magic potion
that can turn things into gold. You worked
hard on your land and created this plantation.
While you looked after the trees, your wife sold
the fruits in the market. That’s how you got this
money. It was your hard work that created this
wealth, not magic. If I had told you about this
earlier, you would have not listened to me, so I
played a trick on you.”
Rama Natha understood the wisdom behind
these words and worked even harder on his
plantation from that day on.