Prabhat always wanted to win. His parents,
teachers, and friends said that he did not
know how to accept defeat. The fact was that
he could not bear losing, not even at marbles.
He felt so good when he won that he never
wanted to give up that feeling. On the contrary,
losing made him feel terrible. He thought that
losing was the worst thing that could happen
to anyone.
If Prabhat sensed that he would lose a game,
he would not play it. He would take part only
when he was sure of winning, even if the game
lasted only for a minute. You could not stop
him from playing the kind of games he was
really good at, like badminton.
A new student joined Prabhat’s school, and
his name was Surya. Surya was an excellent
badminton player. Prabhat waited for the last
Friday of the month. Last Friday was significant.
This was when the coach conducted friendly
matches in the games period. The teams were
decided on Monday and it was no surprise
when Prabhat and Surya were chosen to play
a round against each other. Prabhat was given
the responsibility of keeping score for their
match. On one hand, Prabhat prepared for the
match with great seriousness. Surya, on the
other hand, seemed relaxed, not taking the
things seriously at all. He walked about thewhole time, smiling and cracking jokes about all
sorts of things. But on Friday, at the badminton
court, Surya was a real phenomenon. He won
points again and again, laughing and joking all
the time. However, Surya was paying so little
attention to the match that Prabhat managed
to change the scoreboard while his opponent
was looking elsewhere.
Prabhat managed to win by cheating. He
made a big thing of his win, but it did not
matter to Surya.
“It’s been fun. We should play again some
other time,” said Surya.On that day, everyone was discussing their game and how Prabhat
had played so well. Surprisingly, Prabhat could not sleep well that
night. He had won the game but he did not feel as happy as he
usually did. What was surprising was that Surya did not feel bad
about losing. What was more surprising was that Prabhat saw Surya playing basketball the next day. Surya
was so hopeless at it that he could not score a
basket for ten minutes. Yet, he enjoyed playing
the game. His happy smile never left his face.
Prabhat kept a close watch on Surya for
some days. He was great at some things,
terrible at others but what was common was
the enjoyment. He enjoyed everything equally.
As Prabhat went on with his observation, he
realised that to enjoy a game, you did not need
a scoreboard to keep a tally of your scores.
Neither did you have to worry about winning
nor losing. You needed to enjoy the game for
its own sake. What matters is trying to do well,
and enjoying every moment of it.
Prabhat learnt something through the
observations every day, soon realising the
change in himself. He had even begun playing
hide and seek, and felt sad whenever it was
about to end. He also started joking while
playing badminton. Soon, the other students
started talking amongst themselves, “Good fun
playing with Prabhat, that fellow definitely has
a great sporting spirit.”