EARLY in the New Year of 1956 I travelled to Southern
Iraq. By then it had crossed my mind that I should
like to keep an otter instead of a dog, and that
Camusfearna, ringed by water a stone’s throw from
its door, would be an eminently suitable spot for
this experiment.
When I casually mentioned this to a friend, he
as casually replied that I had better get one in the
Tigris marshes, for there they were as common as
mosquitoes, and were often tamed by the Arabs.
We were going to Basra to the Consulate-General
to collect and answer our mail from Europe. At the
Consulate-General we found that my friend’s mail
had arrived but that mine had not.
I cabled to England, and when, three days later,
nothing had happened, I tried to telephone. The call
had to be booked twenty-four hours in advance. On
the first day the line was out of order; on the second
the exchange was closed for a religious holiday. On
the third day there was another breakdown. My
friend left, and I arranged to meet him in a week’s
time. Five days later, my mail arrived.
I carried it to my bedroom to read, and there,
squatting on the floor, were two Arabs; beside them
lay a sack that squirmed from time to time. They
handed me a note from my friend: “Here is your otter...”With the opening of that sack began a phase of my
life that has not yet ended, and may, for all I know,
not end before I do. It is, in effect, a thraldom to
otters, an otter fixation, that I have since found to
be shared by most other people, who have ever
owned one.
The creature that emerged from this sack on to
the spacious tiled floor of the Consulate bedroom
resembled most of all a very small, medievallyconceived, dragon. From the head to the tip of thetail he was coated with symmetrical pointed scales
of mud armour, between whose tips was visible a
soft velvet fur like that of a chocolate-brown mole.
He shook himself, and I half expected a cloud of
dust, but in fact it was not for another month that I
managed to remove the last of the mud and see the
otter, as it were, in his true colours.
Mijbil, as I called the otter, was, in fact, of a
race previously unknown to science, and was at
length christened by zoologists Lutrogale perspicillata
maxwelli, or Maxwell’s otter. For the first twentyfour hours Mijbil was neither hostile nor friendly;
he was simply aloof and indifferent, choosing to
sleep on the floor as far from my bed as possible.
The second night Mijbil came on to my bed in the
small hours and remained asleep in the crook of
my knees until the servant brought tea in the
morning, and during the day he began to lose his
apathy and take a keen, much too keen, interest in
his surroundings. I made a body-belt for him and
took him on a lead to the bathroom, where for half
an hour he went wild with joy in the water, plunging
and rolling in it, shooting up and down the length
of the bathtub underwater, and making enough slosh
and splash for a hippo. This, I was to learn, is a
characteristic of otters; every drop of water must
be, so to speak, extended and spread about the
place; a bowl must at once be overturned, or, if it
will not be overturned, be sat in and sploshed in
until it overflows. Water must be kept on the move
and made to do things; when static it is wasted
and provokingTwo days later, Mijbil escaped from my bedroom
as I entered it, and I turned to see his tail
disappearing round the bend of the corridor that
led to the bathroom. By the time I got there he was
up on the end of the bathtub and fumbling at the
chromium taps with his paws. I watched, amazed;
in less than a minute he had turned the tap far
enough to produce a trickle of water, and after a
moment or two achieved the full flow. (He had been
lucky to turn the tap the right way; on later
occasions he would sometimes screw it up still
tighter, chittering with irritation and disappointment
at the tap’s failure to cooperate.)
Very soon Mij would follow me without a lead
and come to me when I called his name. He spent
most of his time in play. He spent hours shuffling a
rubber ball round the room like a four-footed soccer
player using all four feet to dribble the ball, and he
could also throw it, with a powerful flick of the
neck, to a surprising height and distance. But the
real play of an otter is when he lies on his back
and juggles with small objects between his paws.
Marbles were Mij’s favourite toys for this pastime:
he would lie on his back rolling two or more of them
up and down his wide, flat belly without ever
dropping one to the floor.The days passed peacefully at Basra, but I dreaded
the prospect of transporting Mij to England, and to
Camusfearna. The British airline to London would
not fly animals, so I booked a flight to Paris on
another airline, and from there to London. The
airline insisted that Mij should be packed into a
box not more than eighteen inches square, to be
carried on the floor at my feet. I had a box made,
and an hour before we started, I put Mij into the
box so that he would become accustomed to it, and
left for a hurried meal.
When I returned, there was an appalling
spectacle. There was complete silence from the box,
but from its airholes and chinks around the lid,
blood had trickled and dried. I whipped off the lock
and tore open the lid, and Mij, exhausted and bloodspattered, whimpered and caught at my leg. He had
torn the lining of the box to shreds; when I removed
the last of it so that there were no cutting edges
left, it was just ten minutes until the time of the
flight, and the airport was five miles distant. I put
the miserable Mij back into the box, holding down
the lid with my hand.
I sat in the back of the car with the box beside
me as the driver tore through the streets of Basra
like a ricochetting bullet. The aircraft was waiting
to take off; I was rushed through to it by infuriated
officials. Luckily, the seat booked for me was at
the extreme front. I covered the floor around my
feet with newspapers, rang for the air hostess,
and gave her a parcel of fish (for Mij) to keep in a
cool place. I took her into my confidence about the
events of the last half hour. I have retained the
most profound admiration for that air hostess; she
was the very queen of her kind. She suggested
that I might prefer to have my pet on my knee, and
I could have kissed her hand in the depth of my
gratitude. But, not knowing otters, I was quite
unprepared for what followed.Mij was out of the box in a flash. He disappeared
at high speed down the aircraft. There were squawks
and shrieks, and a woman stood up on her seat
screaming out, “A rat! A rat!” I caught sight of Mij’s
tail disappearing beneath the legs of a portly whiteturbaned Indian. Diving for it, I missed, but found
my face covered in curry. “Perhaps,” said the air
hostess with the most charming smile, “it would be
better if you resumed your seat, and I will find the
animal and bring it to you.”
I returned to my seat. I was craning my neck
trying to follow the hunt when suddenly I heard
from my feet a distressed chitter of recognition and
welcome, and Mij bounded on to my knee and began
to nuzzle my face and my neck.