Krishna Devaraya
was known for his
patronage of poets and
scholars. He was
equally fond of fine arts.
Once he came to know
about a brilliant artist
named Raja Varma. He
invited Raja Varma to
the court and asked him
to draw his portrait.
The king was
very pleased with the
artist when his portrait
was ready. In the
portrait, the majestic and
handsome king seemed
to have come alive
within the frame.
Do you think that the
king rewarded him?
Apart from this
portrait, Raja Varma
drew images of famous characters from Puranas, of men and women, and so on. He
became well known for his skills. He became close and dear to the king.
Overwhelmed by joy, Krishna Devaraya called the artist and asked him what he
wanted. When Raja Varma did not reply, the king, on the spur of a generous impulse,
rewarded him with chief ministership.
Raja Varma will prove to be a very good Chief Minister." Give your comments.
3. 0easure For 0easure
Measure for Measure
-14-
Though Raja Varma was a good man and a brilliant artist, he had no experience
whatsoever, of administration. Soon everything was thrown into disorder because of
his hasty decisions and bad management of the state affairs. Though people were
unhappy about his administration, they did not dare to complain to the king because
the king was very fond of him.
The elders of the town finally approached and sought Tenali Raman's help in
getting rid of the new and inept Chief Minister.
 Tenali Raman assured them, I shall soon find a harmless way to remove the
artist from the chief ministership.
After a few weeks, Tenali Raman invited the king, the queens and some courtiers
to his house for lunch. Meanwhile, he found a very good carpenter and put him on the
job of preparing a grand feast for the king.
The king and others sat for lunch and at Tenali Raman's order, the carpenter
began serving them. As soon as they put the first morsel of food in their mouths, the
people began to request for water again and again.
Soon after tasting the food, the king realized that the food was badly cooked
and was unbearably hot. He was angry.
Raman, who has cooked this food? Do you want us all to suffer and die by
eating this horrible food?
In his usual humble way Tenali Raman said, I beg Your Majesty's forgiveness.
Then he showed the carpenter to the king. I have never come across such an excellent
carpenter and I have put him on the job of cooking the lunch for today's feast.
The king began laughing loudly. Have you lost all sense, Raman? A good
carpenter should be employed to work on wood but not on food. How did you get
this funny idea?
Tenali Raman asked the king, Lord If an artist can become a Chief Minister,
can't a carpenter become a cook?
Did the king become angry when he heard this?
The king at once understood that Tenali Raman got a carpenter to cook the food
to make him realize his error in making Raja Varma the Chief Minister.
The king was saved from the embarrassment of removing Raja Varma from the
post because when Raja Varma came to know about the awkward incident at Raman's
house, he immediately resigned from his post.
Later Raja Varma told Tenali Raman that he was happy to remain an artist