When I was studying in the third class, I hadn’t yet heard
people speak openly of untouchability. But I had already seen, felt,
experienced and been humiliated by what it is.
 I was walking home from school one day, an old bag hanging
from my shoulder. It was actually possible to walk the distance in
ten minutes. But usually it would take me thirty minutes at the
very least to reach home. It would take me from half an hour to an
hour to dawdle along, watching all the fun and games that were
going on, all the entertaining novelties and oddities is the streets,
the shops and the bazaar.
The performing monkey; the snake which the snakecharmer
kept in its box and displayed from time to time; the cyclist who had
not got off his bike for three days, and who kept pedalling as hard as
he could from break of day; the rupee notes that were pinned on to
his shirt to spur him on; the spinning wheels; the Maariyaata temple,
the huge bell hanging there; the pongal offerings being cooked in
front of the temple; the dried fish stall by the statue of Gandhi; the
sweet stall, the stall selling fried snacks, and all the other shops next
to each other; the street light always demonstrating how it could
change from blue to violet; the narikkuravan huntergypsy with his
wild lemur in cages, selling needles, clay beads and instrumentsfor cleaning out the ears — Oh, I could go on and on. Each thing
would pull me to a stand-still and not allow me to go any further.
At times, people from various political parties would arrive, put
up a stage and harangue us through their mikes. Then there might
be a street play, or a puppet show, or a “no magic, no miracle” stunt
performance. All these would happen from time to time. But almost
certainly there would be some entertainment or other going on.
Even otherwise, there were the coffee clubs in the bazaar: the
way each waiter cooled the coffee, lifting a tumbler high up and
pouring its contents into a tumbler held in his other hand. Or the
way some people sat in front of the shops chopping up onion, their
eyes turned elsewhere so that they would not smart. Or the almond
tree growing there and its fruit which was occasionally blown down
by the wind. All these sights taken together would tether my legs
and stop me from going home.
And then, according to the season, there would be mango,
cucumber, sugar-cane, sweet-potato, palm-shoots, gram, palmsyrup and palm-fruit, guavas and jack-fruit. Every day I would
see people selling sweet and savoury fried snacks, payasam, halva,
boiled tamarind seeds and iced lollies.
Gazing at all this, one day, I came to my street, my bag slung
over my shoulder. At the opposite corner, though, a threshing floor
had been set up, and the landlord watched the proceedings, seated
on a piece of sacking spread over a stone ledge. Our people were
hard at work, driving cattle in pairs, round and round, to tread out
the grain from the straw. The animals were muzzled so that they
wouldn’t help themselves to the straw. I stood for a while there,
watching the fun.
Just then, an elder of our street came along from the direction
of the bazaar. The manner in which he was walking along made me
want to double up. I wanted to shriek with laughter at the sight of
such a big man carrying a small packet in that fashion. I guessed
there was something like vadai or green banana bhajji in the packet,
because the wrapping paper was stained with oil. He came along,
holding out the packet by its string, without touching it. I stood
there thinking to myself, if he holds it like that, won’t the package
come undone, and the vadais fall out?The elder went straight up to the
landlord, bowed low and extended the
packet towards him, cupping the
hand that held the string with
his other hand. The landlord
opened the parcel and
began to eat the vadais.
After I had watched all
this, at last I went home.
My elder brother was there.
I told him the story in all its
comic detail. I fell about with
laughter at the memory of
a big man, and an elder at
that, making such a game
out of carrying the parcel.
But Annan was not amused.
Annan told me the man wasn’t
being funny when he carried
the package like that. He said
everybody believed that they were upper caste and therefore must
not touch us. If they did, they would be polluted. That’s why he
had to carry the package by its string.
When I heard this, I didn’t want to laugh any more, and I felt
terribly sad. How could they believe that it was disgusting if one
of us held that package in his hands, even though the vadai had
been wrapped first in a banana leaf, and then parcelled in paper?
I felt so provoked and angry that I wanted to touch those wretched
vadais myself straightaway. Why should we have to fetch and carry
for these people, I wondered. Such an important elder of ours goes
meekly to the shops to fetch snacks and hands them over reverently,
bowing and shrinking, to this fellow who just sits there and stuffs
them into his mouth. The thought of it infuriated me.
How was it that these fellows thought so much of themselves?
Because they had scraped four coins together, did that mean they
must lose all human feelings? But we too are human beings. Our
people should never run these petty errands for these fellows. We
should work in their fields, take home our wages, and leave it at that.My elder brother, who was studying at a university, had come
home for the holidays. He would often go to the library in our
neighbouring village in order to borrow books. He was on his way
home one day, walking along the banks of the irrigation tank. One
of the landlord’s men came up behind him. He thought my Annan
looked unfamiliar, and so he asked, “Who are you, appa, what’s your
name?” Annan told him his name. Immediately the other man asked,
“Thambi, on which street do you live?” The point of this was that
if he knew on which street we lived, he would know our caste too.
Annan told me all these things. And he added, “Because we
are born into this community, we are never given any honour or
dignity or respect; we are stripped of all that. But if we study and
make progress, we can throw away these indignities. So study with
care, learn all you can. If you are always ahead in your lessons,
people will come to you of their own accord and attach themselves
to you. Work hard and learn.” The words that Annan spoke to me
that day made a very deep impression on me. And I studied hard,
with all my breath and being, in a frenzy almost. As Annan had
urged, I stood first in my class. And because of that, many people
became my friends. 