Once upon a time there was a small boy called Petro, who could not keep a secret. 
He loved secrets more than anything in this world, and it was for that reason that he could not keep them. 
His parents sometimes wanted to tell him things. Things that they knew he would love to know. 
But Petro couldn't help himself. 
He told everyone everything.

And while being truthful is an admirable trait, living in a small village, and telling everyone everything meant that often the stories were told many times over, and the message became changed. 
And then, of course, the original story turned into entertaining lies, and was no longer true at all. 
So it was that Petro's parents longed to be honest with their son, but they feared their honesty turning into gossip, and driving a division between themselves and the others in the village. 
So they often did not tell him as much as they would have liked.

One day, Petro's parents were returning from the market when his father's foot sank deep into the forest path. The mother drove a spade into the soil, where they found the most miraculous thing. 
It was a pouch made of silver cloth, and it was filled with gold pieces! 
There were not so many as to make them rich, but there were enough for them to buy some of the little things that more lucky people do not even think twice about buying. 
Things such as tasty food rather than gruel, and warm clothes for the winter.

"How wonderful this is!" cried the parents. 
They began to think of all the things they could buy their son Petro. They imagined him eating a delicious cake on his birthday, and wearing a warm woollen coat, and studying with a fine professor. 
"But he will tell the world," they quickly realised. "Suppose the news got out? The villagers might believe we'd found more than we had, and become envious. We do not want to hurt their feelings..."

Still, they loved their dear son, and it was inconceivable that the parents could not share their joy with him. And so they devised a plan. 
They placed the pouch back in the earth and covered it well. 
Then they returned to the market, where they purchased a bag of bagels, three fish and a hare.

They hung the bagels from a willow tree that sighed by the river.

And they scattered the fish through the grass.

Then they returned home.

On returning home, Petro was delighted to see his parents. He bounded out of the house to embrace them. 
"Petro!" his mother exclaimed. "We have the most wonderful news!" 
"Shhh!" said the father. "You know we can't tell him..." 
Instantly Petro's interest was piqued. 
"Why, Father?" he said. He loved secrets so very much. "Why can't you tell me? I won't tell a soul!" 
"You know that's not true," said his mother, "For you have a bad habit of telling everyone everything..." 
"I promise I won't, Mother! Really, Father!" 
"Very well then," said his father said with a sigh. "Come with us.

Petro and his parents walked along the forest path. 
Petro stopped short when he saw the bagels hanging from the willow. 
"Is this the wonderful thing? I have never seen bagels hanging from a tree!" 
"I've heard of such things," said his mother. In an awed whisper, she added, "They say this is a magical forest where bread grows on trees, fish walk and land creatures swim."

Petro was overjoyed. He went and collected all the bagels, and put them in a large bag, so they could eat them for supper.

But as he was collecting the bagels, he saw another miraculous thing! 
Fish were scattered all through the grass, as though they had just been swimming there! 
"Father! Mother! There are fish in the grass! This must certainly be a magic forest!" 
"Collect them in your bag," said the mother. "We will eat them too."

Of course, as he was collecting those fish in a bag, he cast his eye down to the nearby river and stopped dead in his tracks. For there was a hare, kicking and thrashing in a net, as though it had just been caught swimming in the river.

"My goodness!" Petro cried. "The creatures of the land have truly also been swimming as fish do! There is a hare caught in a fishing net!" 
The parents chuckled, and let him collect the hare. Then they took him to the spot in the forest where the treasure was buried. 
Petro was quite overjoyed. It was the luckiest day he could remember.

For the weeks that followed, they were able to purchase a warm coat for Petro, and a feather pillow to keep him comfortable as he slept, and various other little pleasant things that made a big difference to a poor family. 
But of course, Petro being Petro, he did not keep the news to himself. He told his friend, who told his parents, who told their neighbour, who told the school teacher, who told the Mayor. And each time, in each story, the gold became more and more large until it was the size of a small nation. 
Eventually, they heard the inevitable knock on the door. 
It was the Town Mayor, who had heard all about the great riches he supposed they had found, and wanted to claim some for the village.

"Go and speak to the Mayor," they told Petro. 
And Petro did. 
"I have heard that you have found a great treasure!" said the Mayor. 
"Oh yes," said Petro. "A very wonderful treasure!" 
"And how did you find it?"

"We were walking through the forest when we saw a tree growing bagels..." 
"A tree growing bagels!" the Mayor said, somewhat confused. 
At this moment, Petro's parents emerged from the other room. 
"I heard you found a large bag of treasure," said the Mayor. The two of them laughed. 
"I suppose he'll also tell you that he saw fish in the grass!" they said. 
"But -I did!" said Petro. "And a hare in a fishing net! The hare had been swimming as the fish do!"

The mayor looked sideways at Petro. Petro became more flushed and insistent. 
"It happened!" he said. 
"Come, come," said his father gently. "Petro, everyone is laughing at you. You see for yourself, Mayor, how much you can believe my son.

And so while Petro was at first a little angry at his parents, he gradually came to see how his gossiping could make things worse for his family, rather than better. 
From that day on, he was careful never to break the their trust. 
And they in turn were able to use the last of the coins to buy a lovely chair for each of them, where they told each other stories in the evenings, and did not have to resort to tricks or gossip.
