Lucy is a little girl who loves nothing more than to play with her friends, sing and play games.

Every Monday, Lucy goes to junior dance class after school. She loves it so much! She has lots of friends there, and loves her teacher, and knows all the dance moves.

But now she is eleven, she is told that she has to do things differently than she has before. Now she is growing older, her classes are changing. Next year, she will have to go to a new class in a new school, and make new friends.

Lucy finds it so unfair. She's not afraid to say how she's feeling, so often she shouts out, 
"THAT'S NOT FAIR!" 
Her mum always says, It's alright, it will be okay, and that always calms Lucy down.

So one day it was a Monday morning and Lucy was packing her dance clothes, when her mum said, "Sorry Lucy, dance class is Tuesdays now..."

Lucy shouted at the top of her voice, 
"IT'S NOT FAIR!" 
And as always, Lucy's mum said, 
"It's alright, it will be okay."

Tuesday came, and Lucy and her mum arrived at dance class. 
Lucy was a little scared and a little worried as everybody was so much bigger than her. But her mum put her hand on her shoulder and said, 
"It's alright, it will be okay." and it was. Lucy had lots of fun.

It was now September, and the summer holidays had ended. Lucy had to go and get new uniform for her big school. This made Lucy so angry! 
"IT'S NOT FAIR!" 
I like my old uniform!" she shouted.

Tuesday came, and Lucy and her mum arrived at dance class. 
Lucy was a little scared and a little worried as everybody was so much bigger than her. But her mum put her hand on her shoulder and said, 
"It's alright, it will be okay." and it was. Lucy had lots of fun.

It was now September, and the summer holidays had ended. Lucy had to go and get new uniform for her big school. This made Lucy so angry! 
"IT'S NOT FAIR!" 
I like my old uniform!" she shouted.

Lucy's mum kneeled down and said, "It's alright, it will be okay."

On the first day of school, she put on her new uniform and her new shoes and her new hair clip. She picked up her new bag and looked in the mirror and said, 
"I DON'T LIKE IT!

When she got into the car all sad and angry, her mum said, 
"It's alright, it will be okay. Give it some time."

Now Lucy was at her new school. She had to learn lots of new things. Everybody told her she had to do homework and read super-sized books and answer a bazillion questions, and she wasn't afraid to say, 
000 "I DON'T LIKE IT!"

Lucy's mum heard these shouts from Lucy's room and went to go and see what was wrong with Lucy. 
Lucy explained with tears in her eyes, 
"IT'S TOO MUCH NEW!" 
Her mum gave her a big hug and and said, 
"It's alright, it will be okay. Just do one thing at a time, and it will be done soon enough."

Lucy listened to her mum's advice. She did her maths homework and then flicked through the poem book and answered the questions on the worksheet. It didn't take long at all. Lucy loved the poems she read and the questions were fun.

As Tuesday came around, Lucy was excited. 
She had made a new friend in the intermediate dance class, and she found the new dance moves she had been learning super fun. 
When class was finished, Lucy's mum asked her how it went, and she said, 
"Yeah, it was okay. Thanks Mum."

On the last day of term, Lucy woke up sad, and Lucy's mum asked her what was wrong as her head was drooped over her breakfast bowl.

Lucy said, "I'm going to miss my new friends. Today is the last day of term. I won't see them for two whole weeks."

Lucy's mum smiled and said, "It's alright, it will be okay."

and guess what

it was!