s axe. Who helped him?
Once there was a very
poor shoemaker. He and his
wife lived in a little house on
the edge of a wood. There
were not many people who
would buy shoes from the
shoemaker. Each day his
store of leather became less
and less. He did not have
money to buy more leather.
Day by day the shoemaker
and his wife grew poorer. At
last there was leather for only
one pair of shoes. The
shoemaker cut out the last
pair of shoes. He said to his wife, Tomorrow I will sew them.
What are the problems that the shoemaker faced?
Next morning the shoemaker got up and went into his shop. He was surprised at
what he saw. There he saw a pair of shoes. He had never seen a better pair of shoes.
The shoes were perfect; the stitches were fine. They were so very well made that they
were sold at once.
Who, do you think, kept the shoes in the shop?
The shoemaker went to the
market with the money. He bought
leather for two pairs of shoes. The
shoemaker cut out the two pairs
of shoes and said to his wife.
Tomorrow I will sew them.
Next day when the
shoemaker went into his shop he
was again surprised to see two
pairs of shoes beautifully finished.
The shoes were very well made
with very fine stitches. He was
surprised. He showed them to his
wife who was also surprised to see
such fine pairs of shoes. She said, These shoes are very fine and the stitches are
excellent; they will bring good money.
2. The Shoemaker and the Elves
-8-
The shoemaker
went to the market at
once and sold the two
pairs of shoes for a
good price. With the
money he bought
leather for four pairs of
shoes. He cut out the
leather and said to his
wife. Tomorrow I will
sew them.
The shoemaker
got up the next morning
and went to his shop.
What did he find? Once
again he found that his
work had already been
done. Four pairs of beautiful shoes were lying ready-made on the table. They were
perfectly made with very fine stitches and were sold very quickly in the market.
Every day the shoemaker would get up and go into his shop. There he would
find his work already done for him. The shoes were always very nicely made. The
shoemaker became very famous. Soon everybody wanted to buy shoes from him.
His shoes were so very well made that even the queen of the country wore them. She
was very pleased with the shoes. She called the shoemaker and gave him one hundred
gold pieces.
'The shoemaker no more poor.' Give your opinion.
The shoemaker grew very rich.
One day he and his wife made up their
minds to find out who made the shoes.
They said to each other, We must find
out who makes the shoes. So, when
night came, they went into the shop.
There they hid themselves behind the
curtains. From there they could watch
the bench on which the leather for shoes
was kept.
What, do you think, they saw?
They waited for a long time.
Nothing happened. They got very tired
of waiting for something to happen. Just
The Shoemaker and the Elves
then the clock struck
twelve. What do you
think happened next?
Two little elves jumped
into the shop from the
window. The elves wore
pointed caps and wore
only rags.
They went dancing
and skipping up to the
table. With a hop and a
skip they jumped on to
the table.
The elves sat crosslegged and took up the
leather left there by the shoemaker. They began to work. Their needles flew in and
out, in and out of the leather. Their little hammers went rap-a-tap, rap-a-tap on the
leather. The elves worked very fast. Almost in no time the work was complete.
Then the two elves started dancing. They jumped up and down, up and down.
They raced in and out and around the shoes. Before the shoemaker and his wife had
time to think, they were gone.
Next morning the husband and wife made up their minds to do something for
the little elves. The shoemaker said to his wife, What can we do for the nice little
elves ? His wife said, The elves did not have good clothes. They wore only rags. I
shall make them little coats and trousers to wear. That will be very nice, said the
shoemaker, I will make tiny shoes for the good elves. Their little feet were bare.
So the shoemaker and his wife worked and worked. When the clothes and
shoes were ready they were put on the table. The shoemaker and his wife again hid
behind the curtains. They waited silently. Once again when the clock struck twelve the
elves jumped into the shop from the window.
They danced and jumped on to the table to do their work. There they saw little
coats, trousers and neat little shoes left for them by the shoemaker and his wife. The
elves were very happy. They clapped and laughed with joy. What do you think the
elves did next? They put on their little clothes and skipping and dancing went out of
the window.
The little elves never came back again. But the shoemaker and his wife always
had good luck. They grew richer and richer and lived happily ever after