This is a story from Mahabharat.
Arjun, the prince,
his brothers and cousins
were being trained in
archery and warcraft
by the great teacher
Dronacharya.
Once Dronacharya
called all his students. He
said, “I would like to see
how you are practicing
your archery skills. I will
take a test.”
So, Dronacharya called all the students together. He placed a
wooden parrot on a branch of a tree.
He said, “Now all of you get ready with your bow and arrow for
the test. Look at the wooden bird on the branch of the tree. You have to
hit exactly its eye.”
All his students were excited. They stood in a line for the test.
First came Bheem. He stretched his bow and set his arrow. As he was
about to shoot the wooden bird’s eye, Dronacharya said, “Wait Bheem,
tell me what do you see?”
Bheem replied, “Guruji, I see the sky, the clouds and the sun.”
Dronacharya said, “Bheem, you will not shoot the wooden bird
right now.”
Then came Yudhishthir. Dronacharya asked him the same
question, “Tell me, what do you see?”
Yudhishthir replied, “Guruji, I see the wooden bird, the branches
and the tree too.”
‘No’, said Dronacharya, “You are not ready to shoot yet.”
All the students were asked the same question. And they all told
about many things they saw around. They told that they could see
the sky, the clouds, the sun, the tree, the branch, the wooden bird and
their friends too. But Dronacharya was not happy with their answers. 
 
He stopped everyone.
Nobody got a chance
to shoot the wooden
bird.
Finally it was
Arjun’s turn. Arjun was
very good at archery.
When he came
forward, Dronacharya
asked him the same
question.
“What do you see Arjun?”
Arjun looked at the wooden bird and focusing on its eye, he
replied, “Guruji, I can see only the eye of the wooden bird,”
“What else do you see?” asked Dronacharya.
“Nothing else but the eye of the wooden bird! That is all I can
see.” replied Arjun.
“Shoot,” said Dronacharya happily and Arjun shot the arrow. It
hit the wooden bird’s eye exactly. The wooden bird fell down.
Dronacharya patted on Arjun’s back and said, “Focusing on your
goal helps you to achieve it.”