It was Saturday morning and
all the summer world was bright
and fresh. There was a song in every heart. There
was cheerfulness in every face and a spring in
every step. The blossoms filled the air. Cardiff
Hill was green with vegetation.
Tom appeared on the side wall with a bucket
of whitewash and a long handed brush. He
surveyed the fence and all gladness left him. It
was a thirty yards broad fence, nine feet high.
Sighing, he dipped his brush and padded it
along the topmost plank; did it again. After
repeating the job two or three times he sat on
a tree log.
Why did Tom sit on a log after repeating
the job two ot three times?
Jim came skipping out at the gate with a
tin pail; he was going to bring water from the
town pump. Tom always hated this work to bring water from the town pump. He
knew that Jim should come back after one or two hours. But Tom remembered
that there was company at the pump. White and Negro boys and girls were always
waiting their turns, resting, trading
playthings, quarrelling and fighting.
Tom called Jim, “I will fetch the
water if you will whitewash some.”
“Oh! No,” said Jim.
“Jim, I’ll give you a marble, even,
I will show you my sore toe.”
Jim was only human, this
attraction was too much for him. He
put down his pail, took the marble and bent down to see the sore toe. But lo! In
a moment Tom was flying in the street with his pail.
What is meaning of 'flying' in the above sentence?
Tom was whitewashing, showing all his happiness. Little Ben was making
noise with his toy- ting-a-ling-ling-ting-a-ling-ling- ............. .
Tom paid no attention. Ben went up to Tom with the apple he was eating.
Tom’s mouth watered for the apple. Ben said, “Hello! Hey! You are working.”
Tom : Oh! It is you. Did not notice; which work you said?
Ben : That work.
Tom : Oh! That work, does a boy get a chance to whitewash a fence every
day?
Ben : Let me do it.
Tom : No! No! It has to be done carefully.
Ben : Oh! Oh! I want to try, only a little, Tom.
Tom : Jim wanted to do it, but I did not allow .....
Ben : Oh! I want a little, Tom, take my apple, I will do it carefully.
Tom : Oh! Ok then, be careful.
He gave up the brush, took the apple, sat on the tree log, eating the apple
peacefully.
There was no lack of material; boys came, requested him to whitewash
paying a lot of their treasure.
Tom sold the chance of whitewashing to Billy Fisher for a kite, Johny Miller
for a dead rat and a string to swing it with. By afternoon, Tom had the treasure of
twelve marbles, part of a harp, a piece of blue bottle to look through a glass, a
key that would not unlock anything, a tin soldier, a couple of tadpoles, six
firecrackers, a kitten with only one eye, a brass doorknob, a dog collar - but no
dog, the handle of a knife, four pieces of orange peel and a dilapidated old
window frame.
He had a nice company, idle time, and the fence had three coats of whitewash
on it.
The fence was whitewashed. Who did it?