Most of the parents like to fulfil the
wishes of their children. They feel sorry
when they cannot indulge their kids
or when they have to scold them. And
when even a scolding has no effect,
the parents become very very unhappy.
Such was the case with Anshuman and
his parents.
Anshuman’s parents had noticed
that he was developing some bad habits.
Naturally, they began to warn him time
and again, but all in vain. Anshuman
just wouldn’t listen. He refused to
believe that he was letting those bad
habits get a hold over him. Gentle
words, strict warnings, a scolding now
and then - his parents tried everything
short of beating him up. And that they
would never do. However unhappy they
themselves were, they wanted to be
loving and gentle as they tried to correct
their son’s ways.
Soon, an opportunity presented
itself. Anshuman had gone to stay on
his grandfather’s farm with his parents.
Early one morning, his father took him for a walk around the
farm. He was describing the specialities of various plants
and vines and bushes and trees to
Anshuman. Suddenly, he stopped
and pointed at a small seedling growing
near a plant.
“Anshuman, that’s a weed. Can you
pull it out ?”
Anshuman had no difficulty in
pulling all of the small seedling out.
“Good !” said his father and they
continued with their walk. After a
while, they came upon the same weed
but there, it had grown slightly bigger.
Anshuman’s father told him to pull out
this plant, too. He told him to uproot
the weed carefully, making sure that no
trace of the root was left in the soil.
“Otherwise the weed can grow
again,” he warned.
Anshuman uprooted the plant
carefully, twisting it and pulling it hard
so that the whole of it came out.
Then his father drew his attention
to the same weed growing at some distance. There, it had grown into a big
plant with tiny flowers and dark fruit.
“That could be quite dangerous. We
mustn’t leave it growing there. Take it
out,” said Anshuman’s father.
Anshuman held the plant in his
hands and gave it a tug. The weed
didn’t move at all. He pulled harder and
harder but to no avail.
“I can’t get this out!” exclaimed
Anshuman. “It has gone too deep into
the soil.”
So then his father brought some
implements, they dug around the weed
and with great effort, pulled it out.
When they were returning home
after the hard work, Anshuman’s father
mentioned, “Habits are like weeds. The longer you allow them to grow, the
harder it is to uproot them. It is wise to
get rid of them when it is easy to do so.”
Anshuman realized the truth in his
father’s words. Throughout his life, he
never forgot that early morning walk on
the farm with his father.
