Once there was a very rich man. He was a miser. He ate
very cheap food and spent very little money. He lent money
to small shopkeepers at a high interest. In this way he earned
a lot of money. Every morning he went out to see the shopkeepers and came home at midday.
The miser had a watchman to look after his house.
The watchman lived in a hut near the gate. He liked fish
and his wife cooked it for him every day. The watchman told
his wife, “Cook the fish before midday. Our master will be out
then. He doesn’t eat meat or fish and he will not like the
smell of fish.”
One day, the master came home early. He walked past
the watchman’s hut and caught the smell of fish. It was a
nice smell and he liked it very much.That afternoon he called the watchman and asked him,
“What were you cooking today?”
The watchman said quickly, “I won’t do it again, Sir.
Please excuse me.”
The miser said, “Don’t be afraid. I am not angry.”
What was your wife cooking? Please tell me.”
The watchman said, “We were cooking fish.”
The miser said, “Please cook it every day. I like the smell
very much.”
The watchman and his wife thought, “Our master is
mad.” But they cooked fish every day.
After a month, one evening the watchman and his wife
came to see their master.
“Sir, you like the smell of fish,” the watchman said to his
master, “So we cook it every day. But fish is not cheap. It is
very costly. It costs us a lot of money. I earn only thirty
rupees a month. So please give us money for the fish.”
The miser thought for a while. Then he said, “Oh, all
right. Wait here.” He went into his room and shut the door
behind him. He took out some silver coins from a bag. He
dropped them one by one on the floor. The watchman and
his wife heard the tinkle of the coins and were very happy.
They said, “He is going to give us all that money.”After some time their master came out and sat down on
a chair. He then asked the watchman and his wife.
“Did you hear the tinkle of the coins?”
“Yes, sir, we did.” Said the watchman.
“Did you enjoy it?” asked the miser.
“Yes, sir,” said the watchman and his wife.
The miser then said, “ Alright, I enjoyed the smell of
your fish and you enjoyed the sound of my coins. I don’t ask
for your fish, so you don’t ask me for money. Now go away