There once was a little girl called Izzy. Well, her real name was Isabella Sarah May, but Izzy was so much shorter, and funnier, and everybody called her Izzy! 
Izzy had big blue eyes and long curly hair. She loved her long hair. She didn't like brushing it to get out all the tangles, but sometimes she had to.

Today, Izzy was fed up. It was a horrible day: rainy, cloudy and quite foggy. 
Izzy was so fed up.

"Even looking out at the wet grey weather is just horrible," Izzy decided. 
"I would love to go outside to play," Izzy said out loud. 
"How can I make the weather better?" She said it loud, but really to herself.

Izzy's grandma was in the other room, but she shouted back: 
"If you can spot a rainbow, the weather will get better..."

Izzy squinted and looked all over. 
"No rainbows up there... not a single one..."

But then she had an idea. She dived into her room and pulled out everything she needed: paper, crayons, paints... 
"I'll show you what a rainbow is, then you can come out and scare the clouds away!"

Izzy got busy. 
"It will have to be a brilliant rainbow, bright with all the colours, to scare off those rainy old clouds.

"Gran, what colours are there in a rainbow?" she called. "I have to get it right, to scare off the rain..." 
It took a few minutes, then Gran called back, "Red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo and purple..."

"Are you sure Gran? I want to get it right!" 
"Yes, I am sure!" Gran laughed 
"I googled it! Hahaha..."

Izzy got even busier. 
"This will be the brightest best rainbow ever, to scare those clouds away..."

A few got crumpled and tossed into the bin...

When Izzy was happy with her best rainbow painting, she held her picture up to the window.



"Maybe a magic rhyme would help?" she wondered. 
"Gran, do you know any "Rain Go Away" rhymes?"

Gran laughed. 
"Funny you should say that! We always said, 
Rain, rain, go away, Come again another day..."

So what if we said: 
Rain, rain, go away, Izzy wants to play today... is that any good?"

Izzy laughed. "It will do for now! I'll sing it loud, and wave my picture around, and maybe it will work..."

Of course, it didn't work; well, not at once. But some time later, when Izzy was putting her paints back into the box, she squinted out of the window, and there it was there really was a rainbow, not so -bright, but a rainbow... 
"Any rainbow will do!" Izzy laughed. 
"Even a dull old, not-so-bright one. If it scares the rain off, that's fine with me!"

The rain stopped just a bit later, but there were still puddles, so Izzy put on her bright yellow rain boots and called her friends, who were also pretty pleased to get out to play...

Izzy told them about her Gran's rain rhyme, and they decided to make it better... 
"Rainy Day, Rainy Day, we can't play, So the rain just has to go away..." 
They agreed that it really wasn't great, but better than Gran's!

Do you know any rainy-day rhymes or songs? 
Perhaps you can make up one of your own!