Once, a rich merchant was scolding his
lazy son. “I gave you so much money to
start a business and yet you have not earned
anything. You are good for nothing! Look at
this dead mouse. A capable man can start a
business even with something as useless as
this!”
Somadatta who was a poor orphan boy
heard his words. He went in and requested
the merchant, “Please lend me this mouse as a
capital and I will try my luck.”
The merchant burst out laughing. But still,
he gave the mouse to Somadatta and took the
receipt that Somadatta wrote out to him.
Somadatta was walking down the street
with the dead mouse in his hand, when another
shopkeeper called him. “Come here, boy.
I need the mouse to feed my cat. I will give
you two handfuls of gram for it.” Somadatta
accepted the gram.
At home, Somadatta roasted the gram
well. Then he took a pitcher of water and stood
at the crossroads with his gram and the water.
He waited for a long time.
In the evening, when the labourers were
returning from the wood, they saw the boy
with roast gram and water. Somadatta offered
them the gram and water politely. 

“But we have no money. Two sticks of wood is
all we can give !”
‘‘That’s a good payment for this simple
fare!’’ exclaimed Somadatta. By accepting two
sticks from each labourer Somadatta collected
a small bundle of sticks. He took the bundle to
the market, sold it and bought some more gram
with it.
Somadatta did this every day. He became wellknown among the labourers as the nice boy who
offered tasty gram and refreshing water just for a
couple of sticks. Many of them began to buy his
gram every day on their way back from the woods.
Somadatta got several bundles of sticks every day
because now he had so many customers.
Once, when Somadatta was selling the sticks
in the market, he met a potter. He needed wood to
burn in his furnace. In return for the sticks, he gave
Somadatta pots for his gram and a few pitchers for
the water.
Somadatta did not waste any money. He
worked hard to sell the wood in the morning and
the gram in the evening. One day, he had enough
money to buy all the wood from the labourers. He
sold it at a good price in the market. After some
time, he even set up his own shop in the market.
He was always polite to his customers. Some
of them paid him cash while others paid him in
kind. They gave him whatever articles they could
offer. Somadatta always found some way of
selling the articles to those who needed them.


After a few years, Somadatta became a wealthy merchant in the town. One day, he asked the goldsmith to make him a small golden mouse. He took the mouse to the rich merchant.

“I had borrowed a dead mouse from you as capital many years ago. Today I have come to return it. Please accept this golden mouse.”

The rich merchant was greatly surprised. He had a beautiful and intelligent daughter.
She was so impressed with Somadatta's business skills that she asked her father if she could marry him, and he agreed. Thus Somadatta who was a poor orphan boy earned money and respect due to his intelligence, hard work and politeness.

It is not known whether the rich man’s son learnt any of the skills from Somadatta.