Let me tell you what happened 
one day in the Enchanted Forest. 
The Dark Fairy was up to her tricks, and a kitten got lost and couldn't remember where she lived. And so it began...

Three little kittens were outside their home looking for their mittens. They had lost them again. It seems this happens every day. 
Their friend, a white kitten with blue eyes, was helping them look.

Who do you think appeared? 
The Dark Fairy! 
The evil fairy turned into a blue butterfly and the white kitten began to chase it, as kittens will do.

The butterfly led the kitten to a deep, dark well. When the kitten jumped up on the well to catch it, the butterfly turned back into the Dark Fairy and startled her. 
The kitten fell into the deep, dark, cold well.

The fairy laughed and flew away.

The kitten was at the bottom of the well, wet and scared. She cried, "Meow, Meow." 
She had also bumped her head on the way down.

It happened that day that the Sugar Plum Fairies had come to the forest to visit their sister, Tinkerbell. 
They heard the kitten crying and quickly flew to the well.

The Pink Fairy waved her wand and the kitten rose out of the well. She was now cold, wet and scared. 
The Blue Fairy asked, "Who put you in the well?" 
"I don't know. I remember chasing a blue butterfly then I found myself in the well," replied the kitten.

The Orange Fairy said, "I bet it was the Dark Fairy. She is wicked and likes to disguise herself in blue. I wish she wasn't our sister." 
Yes, besides the Tinkerbell, the Dark Fairy is also their sister.

The fairies would have to visit their sister another day. Off they flew to the North Pole. The kitten magically flew too. Can you guess how that happened? 
The Man in the Moon lit their way and wondered who this kitten was.

When they arrived, Mrs. Claus saw the 
kitten and said, "Oh, Santa loves kittens. He had a white kitten with green eyes when he was a little boy."

The fairies had a quick discussion amongst themselves. 
What do you think they are talking about?

Then the Blue Fairy asked Mrs. Claus, "Would you like to take care of the kitten?" 
She replied, "Oh, Yes! Can I? Santa will be thrilled."

The Green Fairy said to the kitten, "If it is alright with you...." 
The kitten looked at Mrs. Claus, smiled, and said, "Yes, I would like that." 
Mrs. Claus was overjoyed.

When they arrived home, Santa was surprised to see Mrs. Claus with a cat. He asked, "Who might this kitten be?" 
Mrs. Claus replied, "She doesn't have a name yet. I got her for you."

Santa laughed, "Ho Ho Ho, thank you so much! I love cats. What should we call her?"

Mrs. Claus suggested, "How about Iris, because her eyes are the color of the iris flower?" 
Santa laughed again, "Ho Ho Ho, what a splendid name!"

Santa's dog, Fudge, was not sure having a cat in the house was a good idea.

But in a while, Iris and Fudge became best of friends. They often slept close together, not just to keep warm but because they were friends.