One rainy day, Suzy was in her bedroom, playing with her teddy bear. She couldn't go outside, and so she was a little bit bored. 
What should she do with her day? Perhaps she should snuggle up in a blanket and take a nap? 
Suzy yawned, and her teddy bear tumbled off the bed.

As she stretched out to recover him, suddenly Suzy heard rustling. A little at first, and then more and more. It was coming from the wardrobe. 
Suzy wasn't frightened; she climbed off the bed and tiptoed to the closet. She was curious about where the sounds were coming from.

The pink lump suddenly started growing. 
It towered over Suzy! 
It opened its mouth, revealing huge teeth and a menacing gaze. 
And as she trembled a little in her slippers, Suzy thought that an enormous roar or growl would shake the very walls of her bedroom! 
But instead of a lion-like, monstrous bellow, there was... silence? 
Not a whisper! Not a sound!

Suzy chuckled to see such a big open mouth, and not a squeak come out. 
She thought the monster was funny. He was not at all frightening. 
She reached out her hands to the pink creature with big eyes and stroked its nose. 
The monster looked shocked and just a little afraid.

Suzy didn't want the monster to be afraid of her! 
She opened her arms and hugged it tightly. "You'll be my pink little monster! I will call you Fluffle." 
The monster suddenly smiled. Like most people, he liked hugs, and he thought the word "Fluffle" sounded funny. 
"But we will have to work on your camouflage," Suzy decided. "We don't want people to know about you. Other people might not understand about pink monsters."

You would think a big, pink, fluffy monster would be a hard thing to hide, but Fluffle camouflaged very well. 
When they went out walking together, Fluffle pretended to be a big, soft, fluffy, pink woollen hat. Nobody batted an eyelid... and he kept Suzy's ears so warm!

Because Fluffle was so quiet, he was great at quiet games. 
He knew how to draw so wonderfully! He could do everything pink: roses, strawberry ice-creams, and the pink part of lollipops.

He also liked it when Suzy read to him. 
And whenever Suzy's parents walked into the room, he pretended to be a great big fluffy pink cushion, and they never suspected a thing.

One day, a huge thunderstorm brewed outside. The lightning flashed, and the trees groaned. The clouds gathered like spilt ink. 
Suzy suddenly saw that Fluffle was shaking with fear. They hid together under a blanket. Suzy cuddled into his side, and stroked her friend's pink, fluffy paw.

The quiet monster felt reassured by Suzy's kind touch. He stopped trembling. 
Then suddenly, both of them noticed... a yellow spot on his cheek!

As Suzy watched, more spots appeared! Green, blue, purple, orange... 
Fluffle didn't understand what was happening to him!

"Come and have a look at your reflection!" said Suzy to Fluffle. They ran to the window and looked at Fluff's reflection. 
And as they did, the sun moved out from behind a cloud, and a beautiful rainbow appeared in the opposite corner of the sky.

Suzy exclaimed, "You're a rainbow now!" 
In helping Fluffle to feel not so scared, by giving him a cuddle and holding his hand, giving Suzy had shown that she loved and cared for him. 
And being loved and cared for made Fluffle all the colours of a rainbow!

Now there were even more ways to camouflage Fluffle! He could be a multi-coloured kite, and dance in the wind...

And he could pretend to be a rainbow, even on sunny days!

At the end of each day, they would sit together and watch the sunset. 
For Suzy, it was like being wrapped in a beautiful rainbow blanket.

Suzy felt so happy to have a best friend. She knew that with Fluffle, she would never feel alone.

And Fluffle felt so happy that Suzy loved and cared for him. 
Love and care always brings beautiful colours to our life and each other.


