Once there was a tree and it loved a little boy.
Every day the boy would visit the tree and enjoy its
company.
Come here, my boy. Come and
climb up my trunk and swing from my
branches.Are you hungry? Eat
my apples.How
delicious!
When the boy was tired, he
slept under the tree. The tree was happy
to give its shade. But time went by.
And the boy grew older and went awayThe
tree was often
alone. After some
years... One day the
boy came to the tree and
the tree was very happy.Come, my boy, come
and climb up my trunk and
swing from my branches.I am too big to climb and
play. I want to buy things and
have fun. I want some money.
Can you give me some money?I’m sorry but I have no
money. I have only leaves and
apples. You can pluck my apples
and sell them in the market. Then
you will have money.The boy happily plucked the
apples and carried them away. The
tree was also happy. But the boy
stayed away for a long time and
the tree was sad. One day, the
boy came back and the
tree shook with joy.Come, Boy, come and climb up my trunk.
Swing from my branches, eat my apples, play in my
shade and be happy.I am too busy to climb trees. I am getting
married and I need a house for my wife and
children. Can you give me a house?So the boy cut off the tree’s branches and
carried them away to build a houseThe tree was very happy.
But the boy stayed away for a long time and the tree
was sad again.
And when he came back after some years, the tree
was so happy that it could hardly speak. Now, the
boy was a young man.
Come, Boy, come. What can I do for you?The young man cut the trunk of the tree
and sailed away in a boat. The tree was left only
with a stump.And after a long time the young man came back
again. Now he was an old man but the tree
recognised him.
I am sorry, friend, but I
have nothing left to give you.
My apples are gone.
My teeth are
too weak for apples.My branches are
gone. You cannot swing
on them.
My trunk is gone.
You cannot climbI am sorry. I wish that I could give
you something… but I have nothing left. I am just
an old stump. I am sorry…Dear tree, you have always given. But
now I don’t need much— just a quiet place to sit
and rest.
Well, an old stump is good for
sitting and resting on. Come, friend, sit down and
restThe old man did.
And the tree was still happy