The King awoke, got out of bed, 
He stretched, he yawned, and then he said: 
"What was I going to do today? 
Though once I knew, now I can't say. 
I think I meant to go to town. 
Why don't I ever write things down?"

The King got washed and dressed and then, 
He went downstairs and called out "Ben!" 
(Young Benjamin knew everything; 
He was ADVISOR TO THE KING.) 
"What is it, Sire? Why did you call?" 
The King said, "Ben, can you recall 
What I had planned to do today? 
The memory has slipped away."

Ben said, "I thought this might occur. 
You are a tad forgetful, sir. 
Today's the day, I have writ down, 
That you will go into the town 
And once you're there, my Liege, you mean 
To find a girl to be your Queen."

"Of course!" the King said. "Fancy that! 
Ben, get my coat and get my hat. 
I have to look my best, you see, 
To find someone to marry me."

The King and Ben rode to the city 
Where all the girls were nice and pretty. The streets were full of maidens fair, Potential queens were everywhere. 
Said Ben, "It shouldn't take too long 
To find a queen among this throng."

"Tis true," the King said, "on my life, 
I'd like a cutie for my wife. 
But looks are not the only thing 
A woman needs to please a king. 
The question I have in my mind 
Is 'Are these ladies also kind?"

Ben answered, "I see what you mean. 
If someone is to be your Queen, 
They must be good, so I've been told, 
And have a heart of purest gold.

But worry not, oh Majesty. 
For I've a plan, and we shall see If any maiden here in town Is kind enough to wear the crown. 
The first step of my plan, oh Sire, Demands a change in your attire. 
Your regal raiment's much too grand For all the things that I have planned."

A lovely maid named Mindy-May 
Was walking through the streets that day. 
Young Mindy-May had come to town 
To buy supplies to make a gown. 
A handsome lad whose name was Rance 
Had asked her to the local dance. 
And Mindy-May had told him, "Yes," 
Now all she needed was a dress. 
Her mum would make one, stitch-by-stitch 
(It didn't hurt that Rance was rich).

She walked straight to the fabric store 
But as she started through the door 
She heard a voice say, "Pardon me." 
She turned around and then did see 
A beggar dressed from head to toe 
In rags that smelled like billy-o!

"I hate to interrupt your day," 
The beggar said. "But if I may, 
I'm very poor. I'm hungry, too. 
So may I ask for help from you?"

"No, you may not!" said Mindy-May 
"Now leave me be. Please go away!" 
The beggar sighed and turned his head. 
"Too bad, she was quite cute," he said.

Of course, by now, you will have guessed That Mindy-May had failed the test. 
In truth, that smelly beggar man Was just a part of Ben's big plan. The King got dressed in dirty clothes (Hard on the eyes and worse on the nose) To find a maid who'd condescend To treat a poor man as a friend.

But though the King and loyal Ben 
Played out their scheme time and again 
They didn't find a single gal 
Who'd treat a beggar as a pal. 
"Don't worry, Sire," said clever Ben. 
"We'll simply have to try again. 
Look!" he called out. "Over there! 
I spy another maiden fair!"

The lady Ben had pointed out 
Was fair...but kinda short and stout. 
But beauty, you may have been told, Is in the eye that does behold.

And though not all would find her fair, 
The King proclaimed, "I do declare! 
That girl's the loveliest I've seen! 
I want that maid to be my queen!"

The maiden's name was Alice Brown. 
She carried milk throughout the town. 
And when she saw the Beggar-King 
She said, "Oh my! You poor, poor thing! 
You look as if you've had it rough. 
I'm sorry life can be so tough. 
But you have found a friend in me. 
Here. Take some milk. Go on. It's free!"

The King was struck by Cupid's dart. 
"You have compassion in your heart. 
In all the city, up and down, Twas only you, Miss Alice Brown, 
Who cared not for my poor attire. 
You are the maid I most admire."

And that's the tale of Alice Brown, 
The former milkmaid of the town. 
And once the King and she were wed, 
She wore a crown upon her head. 
A crown she earned cuz from the start 
She had the very kindest heart.

I think the moral's pretty clear But let me just repeat it here: OUTside, you might be hot as toast, But what's INside still matters most.