A new picture would have come, and be standing in the dining-room, waiting to be put
up; and Aunt Podger would ask what was to be done with it, and Uncle Podger would
say:
“Oh, you leave that to me. Don’t you, any of you worry yourselves about that,
I’ll do all that.”
And then he would take off his coat, and begin. He would send the maid out for
six-pennyworth of nails, and then one of the boys after her to tell her what size to get;
and from that, he would gradually work down, and start the whole house.
“Now you go and get me my hammer, Will,” he would shout; “and you bring me
the rule, Tom; and I shall want the step-ladder, and I had better have a kitchen-chair,
too; and, Jim, you run round to Mr. Goggles, and tell him, ‘Daddy’s best wishes, and
hopes his leg is better; and will he let him have his spirit-level for the evening? And
don’t you go, Maria, because I shall want somebody to hold the light; and when the
maid comes back, she must go out again for a bit of picture cord; and, Tom, - where’s
Tom? - Tom, you come here; I shall want you to hand me up the picture,”
And then he would lift up the picture, and drop it, and it would come out of the
frame, and he would try to save the glass, and cut himself; and then he would jump
round the room, looking for his handkerchief. He could not find his handkerchief,
because it was in the pocket of the coat he had taken off, and he did not know where he
had put the coat, and all the house had to stop looking for all the other things he had
asked for, and start looking for his coat, while he would dance round and get in their
way.
“Doesn’t anybody in the whole house know where my coat is? I never came
across such people in all my life - upon my word I didn’t. Six of you! - And you can’t
find a coat that I put down not five minutes ago! Well, of all the-”
Then he’d get up, and find that he had been sitting on it, and would call out:
“Oh, you can give it up! I’ve found it myself now. I might just as well ask the cat
to find anything as expect you people to find it.” And, when half an hour had been
spent in tying something round his finger, and a new glass had been got, and the stepladder, and the chair, and the light had been brought, he would try again, the whole
family, including the maid and the charwoman, standing round in a semi-circle, ready to
Uncle Podger Hangs a Picture
Reading C
51
help. Two people would have to hold the chair, and a third would help him to get up on
it and hold him there, and a fourth would hand him a nail, and a fifth would give him the
hammer, and he would take the nail in his hand and drop it.
“There!” he would say, in an angry voice, “now the nail’s gone.”
And we would all have to go down on our knees and look for it, while he would
stand on the chair, and want to know if he was to be kept there all the evening.
The nail would be found at last, but by that time he would have lost the hammer.
“Where’s the hammer? What did I do with the hammer? Seven of you, standing
all round me, and you don’t know what I did with the hammer!”
We would find the hammer for him, and then he would have lost sight of the
mark he had made on the wall, where the nail was to go
in, and each of us had to get up on the chair, beside
him, and see if we could find it; and we would
each discover it in a different place, and he would
call us all fools, one after another, and tell us to
get down. And he would take the rule and
measure again, and find that he wanted half of
thirty-one and three-eighths inches from the
corner, and would try to do it in his head, and go
mad.
And we would all try to do it in our heads,
and all get different results. And in the noise that
was being made by everybody, the original
number would be forgotten, and Uncle Podger
would have to measure it again.
He would use a bit of string this time, and
at the critical moment, when the old fool was trying
to reach a spot three inches beyond what was
possible for him reach, the string would slip, and down he would fall on to the piano, a
really fine musical effect being produced when his head and body suddenly struck all
the notes at the same time.
And Aunt Maria would say that she would not allow the children to stand round and
hear such language.
At last, Uncle Podger would find the spot again, and put the point of the nail on
it with his left hand, and take the hammer in his right hand. And at the first attempt, he
would strike his thumb, and drop the hammer, with a loud cry, on somebody’s toes.
Aunt Maria would say quietly that, next time Uncle Podger was going to hammer
a nail into the wall, she hoped he’d let her know in time, so that she could make
arrangements to go and spend a week with her mother while it was being done.