Sammy and haircuts didn’t get along. “I don’t need a haircut!” he would always argue. One day Sammy got his worst haircut yet. After that, he decided he would never get another haircut again. For a while he loved his long hair. 
It grew past his eyes and he liked how it blew in every direction when it was windy outside. It grew past his nose and he liked how it moved when he shook his head around. It grew past his chin and he didn’t miss the barber at all. But as his hair got longer, some things got harder. It was harder for Sammy to see, since the hair covered his eyes. He ate two stacks of napkins before he realized they weren’t pancakes. It was harder for Sammy to wash his hair since it was so long. In the shower he found two potato chips and a paper clip stuck in his hair.
It even got harder for Sammy to wear hats. His baseball cap couldn’t possibly fit on a head with so much hair. It grew past his shoulders and Sammy didn’t know what to do with it. It grew past his belly button and Sammy wasn’t enjoying his long hair as much as he used to. It grew past his feet and Sammy kept tripping over it.  Sammy was not so happy with his long hair anymore. Finally, one morning his parents had enough so they marched up to his room to take him to the barber. But by that time his hair had filled up the entire room, and it was still growing Sammy squeezed out the front door and his hair followed behind. He sat in the backseat of the car and his hair dragged behind him. His parents sat him in the barber chair and his hair filled up the entire shop! When the haircut was over Sammy felt great. When he looked in the mirror he decided that maybe he was wrong about haircuts. Everyone was happy, except for the barber, who spent the next three days cleaning up all the hair he had cut. Sammy and haircuts did not get along. In fact, he decided one day that he would never get another haircut again. But, soon Sammy realized that avoiding the barber, and letting your hair get longer, and longer, and longer… wasn’t all it’s cracked up to be. Turns out, when you can’t see what you’re eating, you might end up eating napkins instead of pancakes! And nobody wants to find potato chips in their hair! This illustrated story for kids is a fun lesson for anyone who doesn’t like haircuts!