There’s a mouse in the house and I saw him today. He ran across the floor as I started to play. There’s a mouse in the house; now, how can that be? He stood on the table right by the TV. There’s a mouse in the house and I named him Ned. Since I gave him a name, he sleeps in my bed.  “Hey mom,” Gretchen shouted from her room. “I just wrote a great poem.”
“Really?” her mom replied. “How nice. I always knew you would follow in your father’s footsteps. He was a published author before the accident and I know you miss him as much, if not more, than I. Let me read it and I’ll give you my honest opinion.” Gretchen’s mom read the poem, smiled, and in an extremely sincere voice said “Gretchen, it is a very cute poem. The rhyme is nice, it tells a funny story, and it makes the reader want more. It is very good.”  “You’re just saying that,” Gretchen said. “No!” Her mom replied. “It is very good. In fact, why don’t you write some more?” “Okay,” Gretchen said. “After dinner I’ll add some more.”
There’s a mouse in the house and I saw him today. He ran across the floor as I started to play. There’s a mouse in the house; now, how can that be?.He stood on the table, right by the TV. There’s a mouse in the house and I named him Ned. Since I gave him a name he sleeps in my bed.  Now I feed him all day and he eats like a pig. He especially likes cheese and even dances a jig. He gets into the flower and into the rice. He even opens the cabinet and gets into the spice. What’s that, that I see? There’s not one but two! Ned’s on the counter and there’s another in my shoe. Gretchen took the poem to her mom and asked her to review it again. “Excellent!” she exclaimed. “You are very creative. In fact keep going and maybe Mr Smythe, your father’s publisher, will give you some pointers. It couldn’t hurt to submit it to him.”
The next day after school Gretchen finished her chores and went back to writing.  There’s a mouse in the house and I saw him today. He ran across the floor as I started to play. There’s a mouse in the house; now, how can that be?. He stood on the table, right by the TV. There’s a mouse in the house and I named him Ned. Since I gave him a name he sleeps in my bed. Now I feed him all day and he eats like a pig. He especially likes cheese and even dances a jig. He gets into the flower and into the rice. He even opens the cabinet and gets into the spice. What’s that, that I see? There’s not one but two! Ned’s on the counter and there’s another in my shoe.There’s Ned and his friend but my, look at that. A little one, a bigger one, and one that is fat. It’s a family of mice that are living with me. A family of mice, oh how can that be? There’s five, now six, now seven and eight.Someone help me to shut the mouse gate.
Gretchen again took the poem to her Mom and asked for her opinion. Her mom read it and smiled. “It really is good,” she said. “Why don’t you do one more stanza?” “Sure,” Gretchen said. “It’s really fun and a famous poet has to start somewhere.” Gretchen went back to her room and read the poem several times and after a while she began to write the final stanza. There’s a mouse in the house and I saw him today. He ran across the floor as I started to play. There’s a mouse in the house; now, how can that be?. He stood on the table, right by the TV. There’s a mouse in the house and I named him Ned. Since I gave him a name he sleeps in my bed.Now I feed him all day and he eats like a pig. He especially likes cheese and even dances a jig. He gets into the flower and into the rice. He even opens the cabinet and gets into the spice. What’s that, that I see? There’s not one but two! Ned’s on the counter and there’s another in my shoe.